Page 1 of3

Back to List




    REPORT STATUS: Final
    FACILITY:
    Patient:

    Surgical Pathology      SURGICAL P
    SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT




   Specimen(s) Received

   A: Right lower lobe
   B: Level 3 sub carinal lymph node
   C: Level 4 lymph node peritoneal

   Pathologic Diagnosis

   A.    Right lower lobe:
          Histologic Type:               Adenocarcinoma
   Histologic Grade:       Poorly differentiated
   Tumor Size:       Greatest dimension: 3. 7 em v        ·'f
          Additional dimension: 3.3 em
   Specimen Type:      Lobectomy
   Extent of Invasion:      Tumor is confined to the lung
   Regional Lymph Nodes:      Number involved: 0
        Number examined: 13
   Distant Metastasis:               Cannot be assessed
   Margins:      Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
        Tumor does not extend to pleural surface.
       Tumor distance from pleural surface: O.lcm.
   Lymphovascular Invasion:     Absent
  Venous Invasion:                Absent
  Arterial Invasion:                 Absent
          11
              A" -       Lung, r~lo·,:er lobe, lo ctomy:     Grade 3
  adenocarcinoma {3.7 cm)~~pleural in location, benign bronchial
  resection margin and 13 ben1gn reg10TICrl lymph n es including ~
  subpleural nocres-and 2 nodes_ loose in the container.
           11
              B" -      Lymph nodes, level 7 sUbcarinal, biopsy:
  Metastatic poorly-differentiated carcinoma (0.7 em) to one of
  nine lymph nodes (extranodal extension is not identified) ,
  11
     C11 -         Lymph node, level 4, biopsy: Three benign lymph nodes.
  PATHOLOGIC STAGE:          pT2 pN2 pMX
  NOTE:        Information on pathology stage and the operative procedure



                         tal __
                                                                                    Page 2 of3

 is transmitted to this Institution' s Cancer Registry as required
 for accreditation by the                        Pathology stage
 is based solely upon the current tissue specimen being evaluated
 and does not incorporate other relevant data.             Pathology   s~age   is
 only a component to be considered in determining the clinical
 stage and should not be confused with nor substituted for it.
 The exact operative procedure is available in the surgeon' s
 operative report.


                                                                               ),




Clinical History
Right posterior lung mass.
Intraoperative Consultation

A. Right lower lobe: Bronchial margin negative.               {microscopic
frozen section) .


Gross Description

A: Received fresh for frozen section labeled "right lower lobe 11
is a 197 gram (post fixation weight), 15 x 12.5 x 4 em lobe of
lung.    The bronchial margin is removed and frozen as "FS-Al". The
 frozen section remnant is submitted as 11 Al 11 • Received with the
 lung are two separate lymph nodes, each 1.0 em in greatest
 dimension. These detached lymph nodes are submitted intact as
 11
    A2 11 • The pleura of the lung is tan-brown and focally retracted.
    The retracted pleura is inked blue. Underlying the retracted
pleura is a slightly soft Nhite-gray 3.7 x 3.3 x 2.2 em mass
 Nhich comes to Nithin approximately 4.5 em of the bronchial
margin. The remaining pleura demonstrates a moderate amount of
 anthracotic mottling. There are two potential subpleural lymph
nodes identified between the mass and the bronchial margin.
There are multiple lymph nodes identified near the bronchial
margin within the parenchyma. Sectioning through the remaining
specimen demonstrates soft tan-pink crepitus parenchyma with no
additional masses or lesions identified.              11
                                                         A3 and A4 11 -mass with
relationship to retracted pleura,            11
                                                A5u - mass with relationship
to adjacent parenchyma. "A6 11 - four potential intraparenchymal
lymph nodes, 11 A7" - grossly unremarkable parenchyma greater than
2 em from mass,       11
                         A8 11 - two intact potential subpleural lymph
nodes, "A9 and AlO" - vascular margins and intact potential lymph
nodes and parenchyma surrounding bronchial vascular margins.
8: Received in formalin labeled "level 7 subcarinal lymph
node" is a 3 x 3 x 1.5 em aggregate of multiple matted gray-black
lymph nodes with a small amount of attached adipose tissue.
"Bl 11 - seven intact potential lymph nodes,              "B2" - two bisected
lymph nodes (one blue, one black).
C: Received in formalin labeled 11 level 4 paratrachealu is a 1.7
x 1.3 x 0.3 em aggregate of gray-black lymph nodes and adipose
           -   •- •- n-•          submitted intact in "Cl".


Microscopic Description

Microscopic examination has been performed on all slides. The
pathologic diagnosis encompasses the essential microscopic