DIAGNOSIS
DIAGNOSIS:
A . Lung, right middle lobe; wedge resection:
           Multiple microscopic foci of adenocarcinoma measuring up to 0.3 em in greatest dimension individually.
           Hamartoma, 1.1 em in greatest dimension.
           Tumor foci present in subpleural lymphatics.

B . Lung. right upper lobe; lobectomy:
           Tumor Characteristics:
1. Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.
2 . Histologic grade: Moderately to poorly differentiated.
3 . Tumor site: Right upper lobe.
4 . Tumor focality: Multifocal.
5 . Tumor ~ize: 7.5 x 5.5 x 3.8 em.
6 . Visceral pleural invasion: Not identified ,
7 . Lymphovascular space invasion : Present.
S . Tumor extension: Tumor limited to pulmonary parenchyma.
9 . Treatment effect: Not identified.
           Surgical Margin Status:
1 . Tumor distance from bronchial margin: 0.2 em.
2 . Two foci of bronchioloalveolar carcinoma in the en face parenchymal margin.
3 . TUmor distance from pleural surface: Less than 0.1 cn1 .
           Lymph Node Status:
1 . Total number of lymph nodes received: 5
           Four peribronchial nodes.
           One level eight node, see specimen C.
2 . Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: 3 (3/5).
           Two positive peribronchial nodes.
           One positive level 8 node.
           Other:
1 . pTNM stage: pT3 N2.
2 . Bronchio[oalveoJar carcinoma associated with invasive adenocaricnoma.

C. Lymph node, levelS; excision:
        Metastatic adenocarcinoma present in one lymph node (1/1).



                                                  Electronic Sig
COMMENTS:
Histologic sections from the right middle lobe wedge show a hamartoma. as seen in the frozen section slide. However, In addition to this finding. there are
microscopic foci in sections not examined at the time of frozen section. These foci measure up to 0.3 em in greatest dimension individually. In addition,
this section in slide A4 also shows multiple microscopic foci of tumor within subpleural lymphatic spaces.

The main tumor in the right upper lobe is that of an adenocarcinoma which is moderately to poorly differentiated. Two foci of bronchioloalveolar carcinoma
are also present in the shaved parenchymal margin . Multiple positive nodes are present.

Current NCCN practice guidelines recommend detennination of EGFR and KRAS mutation status in adenocarcinoma of ·lung to help select patients for
Tyrosine-Kinase Inhibitor (TKJ) therapy. EGFR-activating mutations have been shown to be significantly associated with response to TKls and KRAS
mutations are associated with TKI resistance. They are mutually exclusive in NSCLC. Additionally. recent data show that ALK (Anaplastic Lymphoma
Kinase) gene rearrangements in adenocarcinoma of lung are associated with resistance to TKls and have favorable response rates to Crizotinib, the ALK
inhibitor agent currently in clinical trials . Mutation analysis for KRAS and EGFR-TK domain and ALK gene rearrangement by FISH is available as the
Lung Cancer Mutation Panel. Testing may be performed on paraffin-embedded tissue from the primary or metastatic tumor or pleural fluid cell block.
These tests are available on request as a panel or as individual assays.

                                                                CLINICAL INFORMATION
CLINICAL HISTORY : •
Preoperative Diagnosis:     old fema~ with right sided pulmonary nodule SUS~!ci0US for malignancy with increased SUV.
Postoperative DIagnosis: e side of excisiona' biopsy of histoplasmosis lung in
Symptoms/Radiologic Findings:

SPECIMENS:
A . Right mtddte lobe wedge w ith frozen section.
B. Right upper lobe lung.
C. Level 8 lymph node.




                                                                        SPECIMEN DATA
GROSS DESCRIPTION:
A. Container A specimen is received In three containers labeled'            I        Container A is labeled right middle lobe wedge and contains a- 5 .0 x 3.0
x 1.&.:l:::lTl lung wedge. The pleura is purple-gray and glistening. The staple Hne is removed and the underlying parenchyma is inked black. Specimen is
sectioned to reveal a 1 . 1 x 0 .9 x 0 .8 em well circumscribed yellow-tan nodule that approaches to within 0 .1 em in the inked margin. The remainder of the
parenchyma is pink-tan and spongy. There is no additional lesions. Representative sections from the nodule are submitted for frozen section with the
residual entirely resubmitted for pennanent section in cassette A1 labeled :                    \dditional representative sections are submitted in cassettes
A2-A4 to inc~ude the remainder of the nodule in cassette A2.

B . Container B is additionally labeled right upper lobe and contains a 10.0 x 8 .5 x 5 .0 em lung lobe. A 6 .0 x 3 .5 em aggregate of exposed parenchyma
with muttiple segments of exposed vasculature and bron c hi are identified. Extending from one end of the exposed parenchyma are two serpiginous
staple lines 4 .5 em each . Pleura is is purple-pink and glistening with a 3 .0 x 3.0 em area of umbilication. This area is inked black and the specimen is
serially sectioned to reveal a 7 .5 x 5.5 x 3 .8 em defined yellow-tan mass that abuts the pleura at the site of umbilication and approaches to within a 0.2
em of the exposed parenchyma, vasculature and bronchial margins. Additionally, this mass approaches to within 2 .5 em of the stapled parenchyma.
The uninvolved parenchyma is beefy red and spongy. No additional masses are identified. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes 81-810
labeled                                   .ignated as follows: 81-B2 enface of sections of exposed vascular and parenchymal margins; B3-84 mass to exposed
parenct,,.IIICU 11 1(:11 '-::1"1, po .....endicular; 85 stapled parenchymal margin; perpendicular, 86-67 mass to umblHcated pleura; 6 8 '- _55; 810
uninvolved parenchyma. Additionally, a yellow-green and blue cassette are submitted for                             esearch each labeled

c . Container C is addittonaly labeled level 8 lymph node and contains a 2.0 em pink-gray rubbery nodule consistent with Ivmoh node. It Is trisected to
        gray-white friable cut surface consistent with tumor. The specimen is entlrely submitted in cassette C labeled

III    -OPERATIVE CONSULTATION:
~~~':~~_~~~;:~~. DIAG._t::t.<?~S~ _Favor h.a~art(),,:,~..': Dr ..