SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT


COLLECTION DATE:

SPECIMENS:
1. LUNG, RIGHT UPPER LOBE
2. STATION 10 LYMPH NODE
3. STATION 11 LYMPH NODE
4. STATION 2 AND 4 LYMPH NODE
5. STATION 7 LYMPH NODE
SEE ADDENDUM


Reason For Addendum #1: Molecular Studies
Reason For Addendum #2: Molecular Studies
Reason For Addendum #3: Molecular Studies
DIAGNOSIS:

1. LUNG, RIGHT UPPER LOBE: LOBECTOMY
- ADENOCARCINOMA, ACINAR PREDOMINANT (3.5 CM), SEE NOTE.
- THE BRONCHIAL AND VASCULAR MARGINS ARE FREE OF TUMOR.
- SEVEN LYMPH NODES, NEGATIVE FOR CARCINOMA (0/7).

Note: The tumor consists of acinar (90%) and lepidic (10%)
components and has prominent extracellular mucin. An elastic stain
is indefinite for visceral pleural invasion and a mucin stain is
non-contributory. Results of mutational studies will be reported in
addenda.

2. LYMPH NODE, LEVEL 10: BIOPSY
- FIVE LYMPH NODES, NEGATIVE FOR CARCINOMA (0/5).

3. LYMPH NODE, LEVEL 11: BIOPSY
- FIVE LYMPH NODES, NEGATIVE FOR CARCINOMA (0/5).

4. LYMPH NODE, LEVELS 2 AND 4: BIOPSIES
- NINE LYMPH NODES, NEGATIVE FOR CARCINOMA (0/9).

5. LYMPH NODE, LEVEL 7: BIOPSY
- SIX LYMPH NODES, NEGATIVE FOR CARCINOMA (0/6).
Specimens: 1: LUNG, RIGHT UPPER LOBE
2: STATION 10 LYMPH NODE
3: STATION 11 LYMPH NODE
4: STATION 2 AND 4 LYMPH NODE
5: STATION 7 LYMPH NODE

LUNG: Resection
SPECIMEN
Specimen: Lung
Procedure: Lobectomy
Specimen Integrity: Intact
Specimen Laterality: Right
Tumor Site: Upper lobe
Tumor Focality: Unifocal
TUMOR
Histologic Type: Adenocarcinoma
Histologic Grade: G2: Moderately differentiated
EXTENT
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension (cm)
3.5cm
Visceral Pleura Invasion: Not identified
MARGINS
Bronchial Margin
Bronchial Margin Involvement by Invasive Carcinoma: Uninvolved by
invasive carcinoma
Vascular Margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
ACCESSORY FINDINGS
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identified
STAGE (pTNM)
Primary Tumor (pT):
pT2a: Tumor greater than 3 cm, but 5 cm or less in greatest
dimension surrounded by lung or visceral pleura without
bronchoscopic evidence of invasion more proximal than the lobar
bronchus (i.e., not in the main bronchus); or Tumor 5 cm or less
in greatest dimension with any of the following features of extent:
involves main bronchus, 2 cm or more distal to the carina; invades
the visceral pleura; associated with atelectasis or obstructive
pneumonitis that extends to the hilar region but does not inolve the
entire lung
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN)
pN0: No regional lymph node metastasis
Number Examined
32
Number Involved
0
Distant Metastases (pM): Not applicable
Pathologist


CLINICAL HISTORY AND PRE - OPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:
   with hx of breast cancer, now with a RUL adenocarcinoma.

MACROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received in five parts, each labeled with the
patient's name.

1. Part one is labeled 'lung, right upper lobe'. It consists of a
right lobe of lung, measuring 15.5 x 10.5 x 4 cm. The two staple
lines measures 6 cm and 5.5 cm which is shaved and the pleura around
the staple line is inked in black. The bronchial margin at the hilum
area measures 2 cm and the vascular margin measures 1.2 cm. The
pleura are gray pink glistening and mottled moderately with fine
black streaks. There is a puckered area measuring 2.5 cm in greatest
dimension. Beneath the puckered area there is a gray white firm
nodule with ill defined borders measuring 3.5 x 3 x 2 cm, located 3
cm from the bronchial resection margin, and 2 cm from the closest
staple line margin. The remainder of the parenchyma is red and
blotchy. No other nodule grossly identified. Multiple anthracotic
firm lymph nodes ranging from 0.3 cm to 0.6 cm identified from the
hilar and peribronchial area. Representative sections are submitted.

2. Part two is labeled 'station 10 lymph node'. It consists of
multiple soft red-black lymph nodes measuring 2.4 x 2 x 0.5 cm in
aggregate. Entirely submitted in one cassette.

3. Part three is labeled 'station 11 lymph node '. It consists of
multiple soft red-black lymph nodes measuring 2 x 1.7 x 0.6 cm in
aggregate. Entirely submitted in one cassette.

4. Part four is labeled 'station 2 and 4 lymph node'. It consists
of multiple soft red-black lymph nodes measuring 0.5 cm to 0.8 cm.
Entirely submitted in three cassettes.

5. Part five is labeled 'station 7 lymph node '. It consists of
multiple soft red-black lymph nodes measuring 2.4 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm in
aggregate. Entirely submitted in one cassette.
SUMMARY OF SECTIONS:
1A-1E nodule
1F staple line margin
1G bronchial margin, shaved
1H vascular margin, shaved
1I anthracotic lymph node
1J random section
2A entirely submitted
3A entirely submitted
4A-4C entirely submitted
5A entirely submitted

SPECIAL PROCEDURES:
Elastic



Final Diagnosis performed by

Electronically




ADDENDUM #1 FOR MOLECULAR TESTS:

KRAS, EGFR and ALK were sent on                   for patient
        The test is to be performed on tissue from case
           The case report, slides, and blocks for the cited
accession number were retrieved from archives. The pathologist whose
signature appears below reviewed the original pathology report,
examined candidate H&E slides, and selected block 1B appropriate to
the specifications of the ordered molecular analysis. x1 H&E and x9
unstained slides were prepared and forwarded to               where the
subject molecular test will be performed. An addendum report will be
issued when the results of this molecular test are available.


Addendum #1 performed by

Electronically signed
ADDENDUM #2:



MOLECULAR ONCOLOGY

KRAS MUTATION ANALYSIS


Referring Physician:
Body Site: Right upper lobe of lung
Specimen Type: Slides
Clinical Data: Adenocarcinoma

RESULTS: Positive for a p.G12V (c.35G>T) mutation in codon 12
of the KRAS gene.

INTERPRETATION:
Mutations in the KRAS gene are reported to correlate with poor
prognosis and resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapies in
patients with non-small-cell lung cancer.

COMMENT:
KRAS mutations occur in 15-30% of non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC)
patients and are strongly associated with adenocarcinoma and smoking
history.

This assay analyzes codons 12 and 13 in exon 2 of the KRAS gene;
based on the current literature, approximately 98% of mutations are
expected to occur in these codons. The analytical sensitivity of
the assay is approximately 10%; thus mutations present in a low
percentage of cells may not be detected.

This test is validated for use in identifying KRAS codon 12 and
codon 13 mutations in fresh, frozen, or formalin-fixed paraffin
embedded tissue. In particular the test performance has been
established in samples of colorectal cancer and non-small cell lung
carcinoma which harbor these mutations, although several other
tissues are also known to harbor KRAS mutations (e.g. tumors of
pancreas, bile duct, ovary, appendix, etc.).


METHOD/LIMITATIONS:
Tissue sections are reviewed by a pathologist and relevant tumor is
selected for analysis. DNA is isolated from the sample, quantified
and amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using primers to
exon 2 of the KRAS gene. PCR products are subjected to single
nucleotide primer extension to detect mutations at codons 12 and 13;
primer extension products are analyzed using capillary gel
electrophoresis and fluorescence detection. False positive or
negative results may occur for reasons that include genetic variants
or somatic heterogeneity of the tissue sample.

REFERENCES:




This test was developed and its performance characteristics
determined by                         The laboratory is regulated under
the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of                      as
qualified to perform high complexity clinical testing. This
particular test is not considered a stand along test and should be
used only in the context of other diagnostic tests or clinical
work-up related to treatment decisions.




                                                                       .



Electronically signed by:
Date:




Addendum #2 performed by

Electronically signed

ADDENDUM #3:
EGFR Mutation Analysis



Referring Physician:

Body Site: Right upper lobe of lung

Clinical Data: Adenocarcinoma

RESULTS: No mutation detected.

INTERPRETATION: No mutations were identified in the sample provided
for analysis. Fewer than 5% of non-small cell lung carcinoma
patients without identifiable mutations are reported to be
responsive to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapies.


COMMENT: Forty percent (40%) or more tumor cellularity is optimal
for this mutation analysis. The sample submitted showed 4% tumor
cellularity upon pathologist review

A frequently occurring sequence change 2361G>A (Q787Q) was
identified. This polymorphism is known not to have clinical
significance.

Mutations in the tyrosine domain of the epidermal growth factor
receptor (EGFR) gene are reported to be associated with differential
responsiveness or resistance to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI)
therapies. The objective response rate among patients with a
sensitizing mutation ranges from 55 to 82%.

This assay analyzes exons 18-21 of the EGFR tyrosine kinase domain;
based on the current literature, most mutations in non-small-cell
lung carcinoma (NSCLC) are expected to occur in these exons.
Mutations present in less than 10-20% of extracted DNA may not be
detected by this method. Mutation status in a sample may change
during tumor progression or the course of therapy; therefore, this
result cannot be used to infer the presence or absence of a mutation
in another sample or sub-sample obtained from this tumor.

This test is validated for non-small cell lung carcinoma. The
clinical significance and utility of this test in other tumor types
is unknown.
METHOD/LIMITATION:
Tissue sections are reviewed by a pathologist and relevant tumor is
selected for analysis. DNA is isolated from the samples, quantified
and amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using primers to
exons 18-21 of the EGFR gene. PCR products are analyzed by
bi-directional direct DNA sequencing using capillary gel
electrophoresis and fluorescence detection. False positive or
negative results may occur for reasons that include genetic variants
or somatic heterogeneity of the tissue sample.

REFERENCES:




DISCLAIMER:
This test was developed and its performance characteristics
determined by              It has not been cleared or approved by the
US Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such
clearance or approval is not necessary. This test is used for
clinical purposes. It should not be regarded as investigation or
for research. The laboratory is regulated under the Clinical
Laboratory Improvement Amendments of               CLIA) as qualified to
perform high complexity clinical testing. This particular test is
not considered a stand alone test and should be used only in the
context of other diagnostic tests or clinical work-up related to
treatment decisions.




Electronically signed by:
Date:
Addendum #3 performed by

Electronically signed
The electronic signature attests that the named Attending
Pathologist has evaluated the specimen referred to in the signed
section of the report and formulated the diagnosis therein.

This report may include one or more immunohistochemical stain
results that use analyte specific reagents.
The tests were developed and their performance characteristics
determined by                               .

They have not been cleared or approved by the US Food and Drug
Administration.
The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not
necessary.