Phone



                   Final Surgical Pathology Report


Procedure:

Diagnosis
A. Lung, right upper lobe with adjacent chest wall, en bloc resection:
 Invasive poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma extending into the soft
tissues of the chest wall.
 The radial, vascular and bronchial margins of resection are free of
tumor.
 Apical emphysematous changes.
 Benign pleural plaque.
 4 hilar lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/4).
 Nonnecrotizing granulomatous lymphadenitis; special stains for
acid-fast and fungal organisms
                  are both negative.

B. Rib, third, medial margin:
 Negative for malignancy.

C. Lymph nodes, part of 4R, resection:
 Nonnecrotizing granulomatous lymphadenitis; negative for malignancy.

D. Lymph node, level X, resection:
 Nonnecrotizing granulomatous lymphadenitis; negative for malignancy.

E. Lymph node, level XI, resection:
 Nonnecrotizing granulomatous lymphadenitis; negative for malignancy.

F. Rib, fourth, medial margin:
 Negative for malignancy.

G. Lymph node, 2R, resection:
 Nonnecrotizing granulomatous lymphadenitis; negative for malignancy.

H. Lymph node, level IX, resection:
 Nonnecrotizing granulomatous lymphadenitis; negative for malignancy.

I.   Lymph node, level VII, resection:
 Nonnecrotizing granulomatous lymphadenitis; negative for malignancy.

Microscopic Description:
    Sections of the lung tumor reveals a poorly differentiated
non-small cell carcinoma. The tumor does not have any well formed
glands or areas of keratinization. Immunohistochemistry reveals
positive staining for both CEA and TTF-1 with a negative result for CK
5/6 and P63. This pattern of staining is indicative of a
adenocarcinoma. Results of the resection as summarized in the
following template -

Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma
Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated
Primary tumor (pT): Tumor has extended from the lung through the chest
wall into the soft tissue adjacent to ribs (pT3).
Margins of resection: Negative
Direct extension of tumor: Direct extension into the chest wall is
present.
Venous (large vessel) invasion: Positive
Arterial (large vessel) invasion: Negative
Lymphatic (small vessel) invasion: Negative
Regional lymph nodes (pN): All of the hilar lymph nodes and sampled
mediastinal lymph nodes are negative for metastatic carcinoma (pN0).
Distant metastasis (pM): pMx
Other findings: All the lymph nodes containing non-necrotizing
granulomatous lymphadenitis. Special stains for acid-fast and fungal
organisms are both negative.

Specimen
A. Right upper lobe with chest wall
B. 3rd rib margin medial
C. Part of 4R
D. level X nodes
E. Level XI
F. 4th rib medial margin
G. 2R
H. Level 9
I. Level 7


Clinical Information
Lung mass

Intraoperative Consultation
                 lobe - Poorly differentiated non-small carcinoma.




Gross Description
A. Received fresh labeled "right upper lobe with chest wall" is a 308
g, 18.0 x 11.0 x 4.5 cm lobectomy specimen with attached 1.5 cm in
length, 1.5 x 1.5 cm in diameter bronchial stump. Several soft
gray-black perihilar lymph nodes measuring up to 2.4 cm are recovered.
A 19 cm staple line traverses the pleura (subsequently removed). Three
ribs spanning an area of 9.8 x 5.8 cm are present along one aspect.
The pleura is smooth to scaberous tan red with a subjacent induration
adjacent to the adherent ribs. The pleura overlying the induration is
inked orange. The external surface of the ribs is inked blue. On
sectioning, there is a 5.5 x 4.7 x 3.5 cm rubbery tan-white to
gray-black tumor mass subjacent to the adherent ribs. The tumor
appears to extend into the intercostal muscles and to within 0.1 cm of
the inked pleural surface. A portion of tumor and a portion of normal
parenchyma are submitted for tissue procurement as requested. The
remaining parenchyma is spongy form tan-red without additional mass
lesion. Diffuse crepitance is present in the vicinity of the tumor
mass. In addition, a rubbery 1.4 cm greatest imension tan-white
nodule is noted within the adherent pleura.
Summary: 1 - bronchial margin, 2 - vascular m gins, 3 and 4 - tumor to
inked pleural surface, 5 and 6 - tumor to intercostal muscle, 7 and 8 -
random tumor, 9 - random parenchyma, 10 - bisected pleural nodule,
early 11 - 4 hilar lymph nodes, 12 and 13 - bisected largest hilar
lymph node, 14 through 18 - tumor to rib following fixation and
   alcification.


B. Received fresh labeled "3rd rib margin medial" is an irregular, 1.9
x 1.4 x 1.0 cm portion of focally fragmented hard tan-white bone with a
scant amount of associated soft tissue. The specimen is inked,
sectioned, and entirely submitted in one block following fixation and
decalcification.

C. Received fresh labeled "part of 4R" is   slightly fragmented 0.6 cm
greatest dimension soft tan-gray tissue.

D. Received fresh labeled "level X nodes" are 4   ft tan-gray tissues
ranging from 0.4-0.8 cm in greatest dimension.
E. Received fresh labeled "level XI" is a 0.7 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm soft
tan-gray tissue which is bisected and entirely submitted in one block.

F. Received fresh labeled "4th rib medial margin" is an irregular,
slightly fragmented, 1.5 x 1.3 x 0.5 cm hard tan-white portion of bone.
 The specimen is inked, sectioned, and entirely submitted in one block
following fixation and decalcification.

G. Received fresh labeled "2R" are 3 so     an-gray tissues ranging
from 0.3-1.2 cm in greatest dimension.
Summary: 1 - 2 tissues, 2 - bisected larg   tissue

H. Received fresh labeled "level IX" is an irregular 1.3 x 0.3 x 0.2
cm soft tan-gray tissue which is submitted in toto in one block.

I. Received fresh labeled "level VII" are 2 soft tan-gray tissues
averaging 1.4 cm in greatest dimension. The specimens are bisected and
   irely submitted independently in 2 blocks.