Case ID Gross Description

        Lung of increased volume with free
        lobar bronchus; the lower lobar
        bronchus is free on the proximal
        portion and obstructed in the distal
        portion by a tumoral process which
        occupies approximately 2 thirds of
        the lower lobe; on section, a
        tumoral structure of 12/10 cm; the
        tumor is well-limited, white, with
        small areas of necrosis and
        hemorrhage, with mucous
        secretions on surface.
Microscopic Description                                       Diagnosis Details

TUMOR FRAGMENT:
Bronchopulmonary neoplasm of differentiated
muciparous adenocarcinoma type, formed of tubular-
papillary structures, covered by a layered cylindrical
epithelium, with moderate cellular pleomorphism and
rare mitoses. Some of the cells are vacuolated, with
intracellular necrotic content and inside the glandular
spaces. The tumoral stroma with fibrous structure and
numerous vessels with stasis and moderate diffuse
lymphocytic infiltrate.
PULMONARY PARENCHYMA:
Diffuse interstitial moderate fibrosis, stasis and
accumulations of macrophages in the alveoli. Small
hotbeds of emphysema with subpleural localization.
LYMPH NODE STATION VI:
Mediastinal tissue with lymph node with sinus
histiocytosis and stasis. Without neoplastic infiltrates.
LYMPH NODE STATION V:
Stasis, follicular hyperplasia and sinus histiocytosis with
numerous alveolar macrophages. Without neoplastic
infiltrates.
PHRENIC CHAIN LYMPH NODE:
Fibrosis and sinus histiocytosis. Without neoplastic
infiltrates.
TRIANGULAR LIGAMENT LYMPH NODE:
Reactive follicular hyperplasia and sinus histiocytosis,
with numerous alveolar macrophages.
PARAESOPHAGEAL LYMPH NODE:
Lymph node with metastasis of the muciparous tubular-
papillary adenocarcinoma.
LYMPH NODE STATION X:
Comments   Formatted Path Report

           LUNG TISSUE CHECKLIST

           Specimen type: Lobectomy
           Tumor site: Lung
           Tumor size: 12 x 10 cm
           Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma
           Histologic grade: Moderately
           differentiated
           Tumor extent: Not specified
           Other tumor nodules: Not specified
           Lymph nodes: 1/7 positive for
           metastasis (St.5,6,10,7,6 0/6,
           Paraesophageal 1/1)
           Lymphatic invasion: Present
           Venous invasion: Present
           Margins: Uninvolved
           Evidence of neo-adjuvant
           treatment: Not specified
           Additional pathologic findings: Not
           specified
           Comments: Left- lower with
           obstruction of distal lobular
           bronchus
ID   Excision Date   Laterality

                     Left-lower