SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
** ADDENDUM REPORT **

LUNG CANCER MUTATION PANEL
SPECIMEN SOURCE: LUNG WEDGE
SPECIMEN/BLOCK NUMBER:

EGFR Mutation: NOT DETECTED
Results reviewed by

Sequencing of the entire coding region and splice junction sites of exons 18-21 of the EGFR gene revealed no previously published mutations or any
sequence changes that could result in amino acid changes. As 7% of patients who respond to EGFR inhibitors do not show mutations in exons 18-21 of
EGFR gene, a negative result does not preclude the possibility of a clinical response to EGFR inhibitors.

KRAS Mutation Analysis
KRAS Mutation: DETECTED
(Abnormal) This result was reviewed and interpreted b:

Based on sequence analysis, K-Ras codon 12 GGT>TGT (Gi2C) mutant was detected.

FISH, ALK, 2p23
FISH, ALK, 2P23: SEE BELOW

Specimen Type: Paraffin Embedded Tumor Tissue

Clinical Indication: FISH study for ALK

Method : FISH

Total Cells : 100

Images Captured : 2

RESULT :

nuc ish(ALKx3-10)[79/100]

INTERPRETATION :

FISH RESULT NEGATIVE FOR REARRANGEMENT OF ALK GENE, SUGGESTIVE OF GAIN OF ALK REGION.

Fluorescence in-situ hybridization (FISH) analysis, using break-apart probes specific for ALK gene (2p23; Abbott Molecular), did not exhibit a break-apart
pattern. Thus, this result is not indicative of a translocation involving the ALK gene.

As an incidental finding, additional 1-8 copies of the ALK region were observed in 79% of cells. This suggests gain of the ALK region. The clinical
significance of this incidental finding is unknown.

A small proportion of tumors (approximately 5%) with ALK rearrangement demonstrated by other methods may be missed by this study.

This result does not rule out a malignancy or other genetic changes. This result should be considered in combination with other clinical and/or laboratory
data. The cutoff values for ALK rearrangement are 12% for paraffin-embedded specimens, 3% for bone marrow, 5% for peripheral blood. Please expect
the result of any other concurrent test in a separate report.

This test was developed and its performance characteristics were determined by — : has
not been cleared or approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA nas determined that such clearance or approval Is not necessdry.
Performance characteristics refer to the analytical performance of the test.

Laboratory results reviewed and Clinical Interpretation provided by

Test performed and reported under supervision of.

Mutational analysis of the EGFR and KRAS genes and ALK locus rearrangement by FISH were performed to survey the most common tumor-associated
genetic changes that have been shown to have prognostic and therapeutic consequences in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). |

EGFR kinase domain mutations are found in 10-15% of lung adenocarcinomas, particularly those occurring in younger patients without a smoking history,
and identify tumors that may have significant clinical response to EGFR-targeted kinase inhibitors. Secondary somatic mutations in EGFR, particularly

T790M in exon 20, may accompany acquired resistance to these inhibitors.

KRAS point mutations occur in 20-30% of lung adenocarcinomas and are largely mutually exclusive with EGFR mutations. KRAS mutations are
associated with a poor prognosis and resistance to anti-EGFR-directed immunotherapy.

ALK locus rearrangement resulting in the EML4-ALK gene fusion is present in 3-5% of NSCLC, is most commonly seen in adenocarcinomas from
younger patients, and produces overexpression of the ALK tyrosine kinase. Patients who harbor ALK rearrangement do not benefit from EGFR tyrosine
kinase inhibitors and are recommended to be directed to trials of ALK-targeted agents.

The exons tested cumulatively comprise greater than 95% of the known activating mutations in the selected genes; rare mutations occurring at other sites
or in other genes that may influence outcome cannot be excluded.

Genomic DNA was extracted from microdissected paraffin-embedded tissue sections isolated from the submitted block. PCR-based DNA sequencing was
used to assess for mutations in exon 1 (including codon 12 & 13) and exon 2 (including codon 61) of KRAS and exons 18-21 of the EGFR tyrosine kinase
(TK) domain. The sensitivity for mutation detection for these assays is approximately 10% mutant allele in the background of normal allele in the

microdissected area.

The KRAS and EGFR test was developed and its performance characteristics have been determined by
Performance characteristics refer to the analytical performance of the test.

The FISH test was developed and its performance characteristics have been determined by It
has not been cleared or approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary.
Performance characteristics refer to the analytical performance of the test.

Test performed at

Addendum Report Issued By: ;

DIAGNOSIS:
A. Right endobronchial lesion, biopsy:
Adenocarcinoma.

B. Level 4R lymph nodes, excision:
Two lymph nodes, negative for metastatic disease.
One markedly calcified.

C. Level 4L lymph nodes, excision:
Six of six lymph nodes positive for metastatic carcinoma, see comment.

D. Right upper lobe lung wedge, excision:
Tumor Characteristics:
. Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.
. Histologic grade: Grade II, moderately differentiated.
. Tumor site: Right upper lobe.
. Tumor focality: Unifocal.
Tumor size: 2.4 x 2.3 x 1.8 cm.
. Visceral pleural invasion: Negative.
. Lymphovascular space invasion: Not seen.
Surgical Margin Status:
. Tumor distance from stapled margin: 0.2 cm.
2. Tumor distance from pleural surface: Less than 0.1 cm.
Lymph Node Status:
1. See parts A, B.
Other:
1. pTNM stage: pT1bN1.

NOOBRWN =

—

COMMENTS:
Appropriately controlled immunohistochemical stains for pancytokeratin performed on block C2 shows numerous positive tumor cells in lymph nodes.

Current NCCN practice guidelines recommend determination of EGFR and KRAS mutation status in adenocarcinoma of lung to help select patients for
Tyrosine-Kinase Inhibitor (TKI) therapy. EGFR-activating mutations have been shown to be significantly associated with response to TKIs and KRAS
mutations are associated with TKI resistance. They are mutually exclusive in NSCLC. Additionally, recent data show that ALK (Anaplastic Lymphoma
Kinase) gene rearrangements in adenocarcinoma of lung are associated with resistance to TKIs and have favorable response rates to Crizotinib, the ALK
inhibitor agent currently in clinical trials. Mutation analysis for KRAS and EGFR-TK domain and ALK gene rearrangement by FISH is available as the
Lung Cancer Mutation Panel. Testing may be performed on paraffin-embedded tissue from the primary or metastatic tumor or pleural fluid cell block.
These tests are available on request as a panel or as individual assays.

CLINICAL HISTORY:

Preoperative Diagnosis: TE female

Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptoms/Radiologic Findings:

SPECIMENS:

A. Right endobronchial lesion
B. Level 4R

C. Level 4L

D. Right upper lobe wedge

~ GROSS DESCRIPTION:
Four containers all labeled with the patient's name

A. Container A is labeled 1 - Right endobronchial lesion. The specimen is received in formalin and consists of 0.4 x 0.2 x 0.1 cm aggregate of white-tan
tissue admixed with blood. Specimen is submitted between sponges in cassette A labeled

B. Container B is labeled 2 - Level 4R. The specimen is received in formalin and consists of two 0.7 and 1.6 cm in greatest dimension hemorrhagic soft
tissue fragments. The first, smaller piece is consistent with a lymph node. The larger piece is markedly calcified.

Representative sections are submitted in cassettes labeled as follows: B1. Smaller lymph node-like fragment intact; B2. Two sections of
the calcified, larger piece of tissue following decalcification.

C. Container C is labeled 3 - Level 4L. The specimen is received in formalin and consists of a2.4x2x 10cm aggregate of multiple pink-tan, ragged
likely lymph node fragments.

All lymph node tissue is submitted in cassettes labeled follows: C1. One intact lymph node fragment; C2. Two intact lymph node
fragments; C3. Three intact lymph node fragments.

D. Container D is labeled 4 - right upper lobe wedge. The specimen is received in formalin and consists of a 6.7 x 2.6 x 2.4 cm wedge of pink-tan lung.
The pleural surface is intact and has a long line of stapled to mark the Surgical margin. The staple line is removed and the surgical margin is inked in

green. A portion of the pleural surface has been inked in black intraoperatively and the specimen has been in this area to collect
genomics tissue. Genomics tissues are received in yellow, green and blue cassettes labeled and
MM respectively. Each cassette is also labeled with the patient's name In the previously sectioned area is a 2.4 x 2.3 x 1.8 cm tan-white, firm,

well-defined mass. The mass extends to the pleural surface and is 0.2 un trom the green inked surgical margin. The remaining lung parenchyma is red-
tan, spongy, unremarkable.

Representative sections are submitted in cassettes labeled as follows: D1. Mass to nearest inked pleura; D2. Mass to nearest inked
— margin; D3 and D4. Additional sections of the mass; D5. Norma parenchyma as well as the three genomics cassettes.

