LX




     HISTORY
     Adenocarcinoma LV lobe on
     No previous therapy.

     MACROSCOPIC

     Four speCImens received.

     1: The specimen is labelled "L upper lobe" and consists of an upper lobe measuring 205 x 145 x 40
     mm in the inflated state. Deep to the lateral pleura there is a fIrm white nodule measuring 43 mm in
     maximal dimension. It has a somewhat glistening mucoid cut surface. [Sections taken: bronchial
     resection margin and peribronchial lymph nodes, IA; further lymph nodes, IB; tumour and pleura, IC-
     ID; tumour near to hilum, IE; distal tumour with focal obstructive pneumonitis, IF; apical and basal
     portions of lung, 1G)

     2: The specimen is labelled "peribronchial lymph node" and consists ofa piece of tan lymph node
     tissue measuring 19 x 18 x 10 mm. [Bisected and BIT]

     3: The specimen is labelled "No.5 node" and consists of a piece offatty tissue containing a blackened
     lymph node and measuring 11 x 7 x 6 mm. [Bisected and BIT]

     4: The specimen is labelled "No.6 node" and consists of two pieces of blackened lymph node with
     attached fat. These piece each measure 15 x 11 x 6 mm and 21 x 9 x 8 mm. [Each piece bisected and
     all BIT]

     MICROSCOPIC
     1: Sections show a well-differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma. The tumour has a predominantly
     bronchioloalveolar pattern but there are areas of stromal invasion. In some areas the tumour has a
     papillary architecture. The lesion is subpleural but no pleural invasion is identifIed. Lymphatic
     permeation is present and there is metastatic carcinoma within some of the peribronchial lymph nodes.
     There is no blood vessel inva~ion and no perineural permeation is identified. The lesion is well clear of
     the bronchial resection margin. The adjacent lung shows evidence of emphysema.

     2: The lymph node contains metastatic mucinous adenocarcinoma.

     3: Sections of the lymph nodes show reactive changes only. There is no evidence of malignancy.

     4: Sections of the lymph nodes show reactive changes only. There is no evidence of malignancy.

     SUMMARY
     Left upper lobe lung and lymph nodes:
     1: Well-differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma; 43 mm in maximal dimension.
     2: Lymphatic permeation present but no blood vessel or perineural invasion present.
     3: No pleural invasion identifIed; clear of bronchial margin.
     4: Peribronchial lymph node metastases but no involvement of No 5 and No 6 lymph nodes.
     5: T2NIMX




     Copies: