ee
MRN #
Ref Phyoniat

SPECIMEN INFC Po eee
Collected: :
Received:

Reported:

SURGICAL PAILHULOGY REPORT
DIAGNOSIS —-

DIAGNOSIS:
A. Lung, right lower lobe, lobectomy:
Tumor Characteristics:

. Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.
. Histologic grade: Grade Ill (poorly differentiated).
Tumor site: Subpleural.
. Tumor focality: Unifocal.
Tumor size: 6.5 x 5.7 x 4.5 cm.
. Visceral pleural invasion: Not identified.
Lymphovascular space invasion: Not identified.
. Tumor extension: Not applicable.
Surgical Margin Status:
. Tumor distance from bronchial margin: 2.5 cm.
2. Tumor distance from pleura! surface: 0.3 cm.
Lymph Node Status {includes part B):
. Totai number of lymph nodes received: 8.
2. Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: 0 (0/8).
Other:
1. Other significant findings: An area of central scarring is present in the malianancv.
Additional lymph nodes were previously biopsied, and negative,
2. pINM stage: pT2b, NO.

ONOARWN

—_

—_

B. Lymph node, level 8, excision: Negative for malignancy, one node.

Electronic Signature: inn
COMMENTS:

The histologic appearance is identical to that in a prior biopsy ' thich was immunchistochemically identified as a poorly differentiated
adenocarcinoma. A mutation cascade study was performed on that biopsy, and will not repeated.

CLINICAL: INFORMATION

CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis: GB year old female with lung cancer
Postoperative Diagnosis:

Symptoms/Radiologic Findings:

SPECIMENS:
A. Right lower lobe
B. Levelt 8 lymph node

SPECIMEN DATA

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received in two containers labeled with the patient's name,

Container A is received with formalin additionally labeled “right lower lobe" and contains a 17.0 x 12.0 x 5.0 cm, purple-gray, anthracotic lung lobe. A 1.5
cm in length by 1.5 cm in diameter segment of exposed bronchus is identified along with multiple segments of exposed vasculature. The endobronchiat
mucosa is pink-tan, glistening and wrinkied with no discrete lfesions identified. Also present are multiple gray-black anthracotic nodules consistent with
lymph nodes. These are up to 1.0 cm in greatest dimension. The pleura is remarkable for a 6.0 x 4.5 x 1.4 cm area of umbilication. This area is inked.
The specimen is sectioned to revea! a 6.5 x 5.7 x 4.5 cm, gray-white mass that abuts the inked pleura at the site of umbilication and approaches ta

within 2.5 cm of the bronchial margin which is grossly uninvolved. This tumor abuts adjacent bronchi and vasculature however discrete invasion into
these entities are not identified. The uninvolved parenchyma is pink-tan and spongy. No additional lesions are identified. Representative sections are
submitted in cassettes A1-7 labeled designated as foilows: 1 bronchial and vascular margins, en face; 2 multiple whole lymph nodes; 3
mass to inked pleura at site of umbilicauon, perpendicular; 4-5 mass to vasculature; 6 mass to normal; 7 most normal appearing parenchyma.
Additionally, a yellow-green and blue cassette are submitted for genomics research, each labeled

Container B is additionally labeled "level 8 lymph node" and contains a 1.0 x 0.7 x 0.5 cm, purple-gray, glistening soft tissue received in saline. The
— is bisected and entirely submitted in cassette B labeled

