Pre-Op Diagnosis

Lung cancer

Post-Op Diagnosis

Same

Clinical History

Nothing indicated on requisition
Gross Description:

Five parts

Container labeled EEE 1. - level 6 lymph node" is a 1.4 x
4.0 x 0.6 cm of gray yellow to black fleshy and fatty tissue
fragments entirely submitted in a single cassette.

Container labeled NBM? - level 7 lymph node” are 0.7 x
0.5 x 0.4 cm of gray black fleshy tissue fragments entirely
subrnitted in a single cassetie.

Container labeled - upper lobe of left lung" is a
493 gram previously partially sectioned lobular portion of
recognizable pulmonary parenchyma grossly consistent with left up
lobe. This is received after tissue harvest for genomic study.

Within the specimen container are three tissue cassettes each
abel aS The specimen on reconstruction
is 16.8 x 10.0 x 4.8 cm. e margin of resection includes the

bifurcated tertiary bronchi with an adjacent 1.0 cm fragmented gray
black fleshy nodule. The pleura is slightly wrinkled mottled tan
brown with moderate anthracotic streaking. Noted on the posterior
aspect in the mid region of the specimen there is an area of
indurated umbilication which is previously sectioned over an area of
4.0x4.0cm. On sectioning within this region there is a fairly

well defined 3.7 x 3.5 x 3.3 cm gritty gray tan fibrotic lesion with

a gritty necrotic gray tan fibrotic cut surface. This is seen at

its nearest point 3.2 cm from the bronchial margin. An apparent
bronchial connection is identified. This grossly extends to within
0.1 cm of the medial pleura and within 0.2 cm of the lateral pleura.
The remaining parenchyma is spongy and pink red with focal!
anthracotic streaking. No additional gross lesions are identified.
Representative sections are submitted labeled as follows: A -
bronchial margin in adjacent nodule, B through F - representative
lesion and surrounding tissue, G - random uninvolved parenchyma.

Container labeled IEE - evel 9 lymph node" is a 1.1 x
0.8 x 0.7 cm partially fragmented nodular portion of fleshy gray tan
to brown black tissue which is bisected and entirely submitted in a
single cassette.

Container labeled IEE 5 - level 5 lymph node" is a 0.6 x
0.4 x 0.3 cm of gray black fleshy tissue fragments entirely
submitted in a single cassette.

Microscopic Description:

Reviewed are slides labeled

Final Diagnosis
Lymph node, level 6, excisional biopsy:
One lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/1).
Lymph node, level 7, excisional biopsy:

One lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/1).
Lung, left upper lobe, lobectomy:
Tumor characteristics:

Specimen integrity: !ntact.

Specimen laterality: Left upper lobe.

Histologic type: Poorly differentiated carcinoma with features of
adenosquamous carcinoma

(see comment).

Histologic grade: Ili (poorly differentiated)

Tumor site: Left upper lobe, posterior mid region.

Tumor focality: Unifocal.

Tumor size: 3.7 x 3.5 x 3.3 cm.

Visceral pleural invasion: Not identified.

Lymphovascular space invasion: No unequivocal lymphovascular space
invasion identified.

Tumor extension: Tumor confined to lung parenchyma.
Treatment effect: Not identified/not applicable.
Surgical margin status:

Tumor distance from bronchial margin: 3.2 cm.

Tumor distance from parenchymal margin: Not applicable.

Tumor distance from pleural surface: 1 mm.

Lymph node status:

One peribronchial lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma
(0/14).

See also parts 1, 2, 4 and 5.
Other:

Emphysematous change.

pTN stage: pT2a NO
Lymph node, level 9, excisional biopsy:
One lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/1).
Lymph node, level 5, excisional biopsy:
One lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/1). PAS 9
SPC-A

Comments

The histologic sections of the neoplasm demonstrate a poorly
differentiated non-small cell carcinoma composed of large
pleomorphic cells with large nuclei demonstrating irregular nuclear
contours. In areas, the cells demonstrate smooth chromatin; in other
areas, the nuclei appear more vesicular. The cells are arranged in
groups and clusters including large sheet-like growth patterns. Rare
pseudoglandular-like structures are noted. Occasional cells appear
vacuolated.

To better characterize this neoplasm, a limited panei of
immunchistochemical stains is performed (with working controls). The
cells are strongly positive for CK5/6 and positive for CK7. The
majority of the nuclei are positive for p63 (greater than 75%).
Occasional nuclei (approximately 10%) appear positive for a

The histologic and immunchistochemical features of this neoplasm
have overlap between both adenocarcinoma as we!! as squamous Cell
carcinoma. In areas, features histologically compatible with
squamous cell carcinoma are seen. in other areas, however, features
of adenocarcinoma are present. Clinical correlation is recommended.

At the request of the undersigned atholagist, these slides have
been additionaliy reviewed by vi concurs with the
diagnosis.

This report has been finalized at the GT

This test was developed and its performance characteristics
determined by It has not been
cleared or approved by the [ole) Administration. The

FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary.
This test is used for clinical purposes. It should not be regarded
as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified
under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of
as qualified to perform high complexity clinical
aboratory testing.

