SPECIMEN
    A. R4 lymph node
    B. Right lymph node
    C. Level 10 lymph node
    D. Right lower lobe
    E. Level 7 lymph node

CLINICAL NOTES
    PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Lung mass.

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
    R-4 lymph nodes, biopsy: Negative for malignancy.

GROSS DESCRIPTION
              A. The specimen is received unfixed, labeled "R4 lymph
              nodes" and consists of multiple pieces of red and black
     soft tissue measuring 1.3 cm. in greatest aggregate dimension. The
     entire spec      s submitted for frozen section diagnosis as
     requested.
              B.      ived in formalin labeled "R4 lymph node" and
              consists of 4 pieces of white and black soft tissue
varying
     from 1.2 to 1.5 cm. in greatest dimension. RS-1
              C. Received in formalin labeled "level 10 lymph node" and
              consists of 5 pieces of white and black soft tissue
     measuring up to 1.2 cm. RS-1
              D. The specimen is received in formalin but was
apparently
     originally received fresh. It consists of a 195 g lung lobe. The
     specimen is labeled "right lower lobe". The specimen has a pink
and
     purple serosal surface and measures 15 x 7 x 5.4 cm. The specimen
     has been incised prior to my examination and a portion of the
     specimen has been taken for research purposes. The incision is
into
     a tumor measuring 3.5 x 3.2 x 3 cm.
              E. Received in formalin labeled "level 7 lymph node" and
              consists of four pieces of white and black soft tissue
     varying from 0.4 to 2.4 cm. in greatest dimension. RS-2



MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
    A. Lymph node pieces are negative for malignancy.
    B. There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 4 lymph nodes.
    C. There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 5 lymph nodes.
    D.
              Tumor type: Adenocarcinoma
              Tumor grade: 2 out of 3
              Mitotic Index: 26 mitoses/10 HPFs (1 HPF = 0.19 sq mm)
              Tumor size: 3.5 cm
              Pulmonary margin of resection: Negative for malignancy
              Pleura: Negative for malignancy
              Vascular invasion: Absent
              pTNM Stage: T2a N0
              Non-tumorous lung: Benign reactive changes

    E.   There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 4 lymph nodes.

    3, 4x4, 14


DIAGNOSIS
    A. Lymph node, R4, biopsy: Negative for malignancy
    B. Lymph nodes, right biopsy:
          There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 4 lymph nodes
    C. Lymph node, level 10, biopsy:
          There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 5 lymph nodes
    D. Lung, right lower lobe, resection:
          Moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma
    E. Lymph node, level 7, biopsy:
          There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 4 lymph nodes.




             --- End Of Report ---