FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

                                       Diagnosis:

 A. - J). LUNG, LEFT UPPER LOBE, AND ASSOCIATED WEDGE WITH REGIONAL LYMPH
      NODES (NS, N10L, N11 L, N5, N9L, N7), WEDGE RESECTION, LOBECTOMY, AND
      REGIONAL LYMPHADENECTOMY:
    - ADENOCARCINOMA, GRADE 2 (MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED)
        - Tumor measures 2.0 cm in greatest dimension.
    - MARGIN STATUS: NEGATIVE.
        - Closest margin (bronchial margin) is 4.Scm from tumor.
    - S/22 REGIONAL LYMPH NODES POSITIVE FOR METASTATIC
      ADENOCARCINOMA (PERIBRONCHIAL AND PARA-AORTIC)
    - VISCERAL PLEURA NOT INVOLVED BY TUMOR.
    - L YMPHOVASCULAR INVASION IDENTIFIED.
    - PERINEURAL INVASION IDENTIFIED.


PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING SUMMARY:
   Histologic type and grade: Adenocarcinoma, grade 2 (moderately differentiated).
   Primary tumor: pT1a.
   Regional lymph nodes: pN2. (S/22; peribronchial and para-aortic positive).
   Distant metastasis: pMX.
   Pathologic stage: iliA.
   Margin status: RO.
   Lymphovascular invasion: Identified.
   Perineural invasion: Identified.



COMMENT: Immunohistochemical staining for cytokeratin-OSCAR on block 84 shows
two lymph nodes positive for metastatic carcinoma.

Immunohistochemical staining of the tumor on block A4 shows positive staining for
TTF-1, Napsin-A, and MOC-31. Calretinin shows                     .
                    FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

negative for CK516, Villin, CDX2, PSAP, and Ber-EP4. These results support the
diagnosis of adenocarcinoma of the lung.
  Procedure:
                                                       Wedge resection and lobectomy with
                                                       lymphadenectomy.
 Specimen type:
                                                       Lung, upper lobe, with associated lymph nodes.
 Specimen laterality:
                                                       Left.
 Specimen integrity:
                                                       Intact.

 Tumor Features:
   Tumor site:
                                                        Upper lobe.
   Tumor size:
                                                       2.0 x 1.7 x 1.5 cm.
   Tumor focality:
                                                       Unifocal.
   Histologic type:
                                                       Adenocarcinoma.
   Histologic grade:
                                                       Grade 2 (moderately differentiated).
   Lymphovascular invasion :                           Identified.
   Perineural invasion :
                                                       Identified.
   Visceral pleural invasion:                          Not identified.
   Tumor extension into extra-pulmonary structures:    N/A.
   Treatment effect:                                   N/A.

 Lymph Nodes:
                                                      6/22 reg ional lymph nodes (peribronchial and
                                                      para-aortic) positive for metastatic carcinoma.
Margin Evaluation :
  Distance to closest margin :
                                                      4.6cm (bronchial margin).
  Bronchial margin :
                                                      Negative.
  Vascular margin :
                                                      Negative.
  Parenchymal margin :
                                                      Negative.
  Parietal pleural margin:                            N/A.
  Chest wall margin:                                  N/A.
  Other margins:                                      N/A.

Pathologic tumor staging descriptors:
   Primary tumor (pT) :
                                                      pT1a .
  Regional lymph nodes (pN):                          pN2 .
  Distant metastasis (pM) :                           pMX.
  Margin status (R):
                                                      RO (negative).
  Pathologic stage:
                                                      lilA.

Additional pathologic findings:                       N/A.

Comment:
                                                      N/A.
                              FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT




  Source of Specimen:
  A. Lung;Left Upper Lobe Wedge
  B. Lung;Left Upper Lobe For Bronchial Margins
  C. N6 #1
  D. N10L
  E. N11L
 F. N6 #2
 G. N5
 H. N9L
 I. N7
 J. N5 #2

 Clinical History/Operative Ox:
 Left lung nodule

 Intraoperative Diagnosis:
 A. Left upper lobe wedge biopsy: Non-small cell carcinoma.
B. Left upper lobe lung, lobectomy: B                in free of tumor. Enlarged peribronchial node positive
for metastatic                                                                        (s) was/were performed
and rendered

Gross Description:
 A. The specimen is labeled left upper lobe lung wedge and is received without fixative. It consists of a
 wedge resection of lung which measures 5.2 x 2.5 x 1 cm. A metallic staple line is present along one
 edge. It weighs 9 grams . The pleural surface varies from dark redd ish-violet to several foci which have an
 anthracotic appearance. There is a palpable subpleural mass centrally with very slight puckering of the
 pleural surface. On sectioning , this subpleural mass is tan and anthracotic and measures 2 x 1.7 x 1.5 cm.
It is grossly 0.6 cm from the closest staple line. A representative section of this subpleural mass is
submitted for frozen section as FS1 . The tissue remaining from frozen section is submitted for permanent
section in cassette A 1. The staple line from the lung wedge is dissected free and the resected edge is
inked green . Additional representative sectio~he lung wedge, to include all the grossly recognizable
neoplasm , are submitted in cassettes A2-A4._

B. The specimen is labeled left uppe                    -. , . e      _   -    ••
                                                                                    ts of a lobe of lung
                               FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

   which weighs 189 grams. It measures 23.5 x 9 x up to 3 cm . The pleural surface of the lung varies from
   pale red to violet to tan in the basilar and most apical portion. There is anthracotic streaking which
   appears linear. Along the middle anterior surface of the lung, there is a 9 cm staple line. The pleural
   surface appears smooth throughout. At the hilum, the bronchial margin is removed as a thin shave and is
  submitted for frozen section as FS2 . There is a prominent firm 1.1 cm peribronchial node which is also
  submitted for frozen section as FS3. There are two smaller 0.7-0.8 cm peribronchial nodes. The bronchi
  are dissected and there is no grossly obvious intrabronchial tumor. On sectioning, the metallic staple line
  is 4 cm from the bronchial resection margin . Sections of the pulmonary parenchyma along the staple line
  reveal no grossly obvious tumor. Close serial sectioning of the lung reveal the pulmonary parenchyma at
 the apical portion of the lung to have a honeycomb appearance. Sections of the remainder of the lung
 reveal spongy soft red pulmonary parenchyma without additional masses. Representative sections are
 submitted. Section summary: 81) bronchial margin remaining from frozen section, 82) peribronchial node
 remaining from frozen section, 83) vascular margin, 84) two additional peribronchial nodes, 85-86)
 sections of pulmonary parenchyma alon~ line, 87) representative sections of apical upper lobe, 88)
 representative mid lung , 89) basilar lung _

 C. The specimen is labeled N6#1 and is received in formalin . It consists of a single slightly disrupted
 fragment of tan to anthracotic tissue measuring 2 x 0.7 x 0.7 cm . The ~en is serially sectioned
 perpendicular to the long axis and is entirely submitted in cassette C1 _



             01 _
 O. The specimen is labeled N10L and is received in formalin . It consists of a 1.2 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm fragment
 of fibrofatty and brown to black anthracotic appearing tissue. It is serially sectioned and entirely submitted
 in cassette


 E. The specimen is labeled N11 L and is received in formalin . It consists of~e 0.6 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm
 fragment of anthracotic tissue. It is trisected and submitted in cassette E1 ._

F. The specimen is labeled N6#2 and is received in formalin . It consists of a 1.8 x 0.7 x 0.6 cm fragment
of fibrofatty tissue. On dissection, it contains two 0.5-0.7 cm fragments of tan to anthracotic tissue. The
larger fragment is inked. It is bisected and combined with the remaining tissue in cassette F1 .•

G. The specimen is labeled N5 and is received in formalin . It consists of two fragments of lobulated
fibrofatty tissue which are 2 cm in aggregate. On dissection , there .       0.7-0.8 cm possible focally
anthracotic lymph nodes. The nodes are submitted in cassette G1.

H. The specimen is labeled N9L and is received in formalin . It consists of three 0.6-0.9 cm fragments of
fibrofatty tissue. The largest fragment contains a 0.6 cm partially anthracotic possible node. There are two
small 0.2 cm foci of anthracotic discoloration of the second largest fragment. The third fragment contains
a 0.2 cm area of gray-tan anthracotic discoloration. The largest fr. ment including the node is inked,
bisected, and combined with the remaining tissue in cassette H1

I. The specimen is labeled N7 and is received in formalin . It consists of five fragments of pale red to
gray-tan anthracotic tissue. The largest fragment is 1.4 cm in maximum dimension
                             FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 discrete possible anthracotic nodes. The largest fragment is dissected and the two recovered nodes are
 bivalved and submitted in cassette 11 (one inked) . The remaining fragments are submitted intact in
 cassette 12 _

 J. The specimen is labeled N5#2 and is received in formalin . It consists of two 0.8 cm fragments of
 fibrofatty and focally anthracotic tissue. The tissue is submitted intact in cassette J1 . _

 Microscopic Description:
 A. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
 rendered .

 B. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
 rendered.

 C. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
 rendered .

D. Microscopic sections have been examined . The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.

E. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered .

F. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered .

G. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered .

H. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered .

I. Microscopic sections have been examined . The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered .

J. Microscopic sections have been examined . The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered .