SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

De-Identified Specimen Code

Patient Age/Sex |W

SPECIMEN SUBMITTED:

Part A: PERI-BRONCHIAL SOFT TISSUE
MARGIN

Part B: MEDIASTINAL MARGIN

Part C: RIGHT UPPER LOBE MARGIN
Part D: BRONCHIAL MARGIN

Part E: PULMONARY VEIN MARGIN
Part F: RIGHT LOWER LOBE

Part G: LEVEL 11 LYMPH NODE

Part H: LEVEL 10R

Part |: 10R SECOND SPECIMEN

Part J: 7 LYMPH NODE

Part K: 4R LYMPH NODE

Final Diagnosis

1. Peribronchial soft tissue margin, biopsy (A) - Negative for neoplasm.
2. Mediastinal margin, biopsy (B) - Negative for neoplasm.

3. Right upper lobe margin, biopsy (C)- Negative for neoplasm.

4, Bronchial margin, biopsy (D) - Negative for neoplasm.

5, Pulmonary vein margin, biopsy (E) - Negative for neoplasm.

6. Right lung, lower lobe, lobectomy (F) - Adenocarcinoma with predominantly acinar (60%) and

micropapillary (40%) patterns.
- Atypical alveolar hyperplasia. (AAH)
- Centrilobular emphysema.

- Nine (9) peribronchiolar lymph nodes with scattered calcified granulomas; negative for neoplasm.

7. Lymph nodes, level 11, level 10R, 7, 4R, excision (G-K) - Negative for neoplasm.

Page 1 of 4
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Diagnosis Comment:
Tumor Location: Right lower lobe
Tumor Size: 5 cm
Vascular invasion: Not identified.
Lymphatic Invasion: Not identified.
Bronchial Margin: Negative
Vascular Margin: Negative
Parenchymal Margins: Negative

Pleura/Soft Tissue Margin: The tumor invades into the mediastinal pleura; the inked surface is negative for
neoplasm.

Pathologic Stage (AJCC): pT3 NO, Stage 2B

General comment: A GMS stain for fungal organisms performed on the peribronchiolar lymph nodes from Part
F reveals rare yeast forms moprhologically consistent with Histoplasma. An AFB stain is negative for
mycobacteria. The tumor will be sent for EGFR mutational analysis and the results of those studies reported
as an addendum.

Procedure: EGFR Mutation Analysis Re Status: Ordered
Text: {Not Entered}

intraoperative Diagnosis:
A. Negative for neoplasm

B. No evidence of neoplasm
C. No evidence of neoplasm
D. Negative for neoplasm
E. Negative for neoplasm

Clinical Diagnosis:

Page 2 of 4
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Gross Description:

A. Received fresh at the frozen desk labeled "bronchial soft tissue margin" and consists of a 0.4 x 0.3 x
0.2 cm fragment of red-tan soft tissue with cautery. The specimen is totally submitted for frozen
section in cassette A‘.

B. Received fresh is a specimen labeled "mediastinal margin". The specimen consists of one piece of
red tissue measuring 1.1 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is totally submitted for frozen section in
cassette B1.

C. Received fresh for frozen section evaluation is a specimen labeled "right upper lobe margin". The
specimen consists of one piece of red-brown tissue measuring 1.3 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is
totally submitted for frozen section in cassette C1.

D. Received at the frozen desk labeled "bronchial margin" are two fragments of white-tan soft tissue.
The larger measures 1.7 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm and the smaller measures 0.5 x 0.2 x.0.2,cm, Both fragments
are totally submitted for frozen section in B1. nO

E. Received fresh at the frozen section labeled "pulmonary vein margin" is a 1.0 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm red-tan
segment of vascular tissue with a central lumen. The specimen is totally submitted for frozen section in
Et,

F. Received in formalin labeled “right lower lobe" is a lower lobectomy specimen weighing 227 grams
and measuring 19 x 14 x 4.cm, The bronchial remnant protrudes 0.7 cm from the hilum and measures
0.7 cm in diameter. There are two stapled margins measuring 3.5 cm (located inferiorly) and 3.0 cm
(located superiorly). The stapled margins are inked orange. A segment of soit tissue is present
adjacent to the bronchus measuring 2.0 x 1.0 cm. The soft tissue is inked yellow. The specimen is
serially sectioned perpendicular to the stapled margins to reveal a tan-white solid mass with scalloped
borders measuring 5 x 3.5 x 3.5 cm. The mass puckers the overlying pleura and is tightly adhered to
the adjacent soft tissue. Additionally, the mass is less than 0.3 cm from the bronchial margin of
resection, 0.2 cm from the superior staple margin of resection and appears to abut the soft tissue. The
remaining lung parenchyma appears grossly unremarkable. The mass encases the surrounding
vessels. No other gross abnormalities are identified. Representative sections are submitted as follows:
F1 bronchial shave margin; F2 vascular shave margins; F3 mass puckering pleura; F4 & F5 mass with
adherent soft tissue; F6 mass in relationship to bronchial margin of resection; F7: mass in relationship
to superior staple margin; F8 mass in relationship to uninvolved parenchyma; F9 mass encasing
vessels; F10 unremarkable parenchyma; F11 calcified lymph node; F12 - F14 remaining lymph nodes
totally submitted.

G. Received in formatin on Telfa gauze labeled "level 11 lymph node" is a single segment of gray-black
soft tissue measuring 0.9 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is totally submitted in formalin in G1.

Page 3 of 4
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Gross Description:

H. Received in formalin labeled "level 10R" is a single segment of yellow-black to gray soft tissue
measuring 1.5 x 0.7 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is totally submitted In formalin in H1.

|, Received in formalin labeled "10R 2nd vessel" are multiple irregular segments of black-gray soft tissue
aggregating to 2.0 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm. The segments are totally submitted in formalin in 11.

J. Received in formalin labeled "#7 lymph node" are multiple irregular segments of tan-brown to gray firm
tissue ranging in size from <0.1 to 1.5 cm in greatest dimension, The segments are totally submitted in

formalin in Ji-J2.

K. Received in formalin labeled "4R lymph node" is an irregular shaped segment of yellow-brown soit
tissue measuring 1.0 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm. The segments are totally submitted in formalin in K1.

Microscopic:
{Not Entered}

Page 4 of 4
