TCGA-38-4630


   .agnosis:
 r\:Lung, right upper lobe, lobectomy
 -Adenocarcinoma, poorly differentiated, with focal papillary architecture, 4.5 em diameter, morphologically
 similar to previous uterine papillary serous carcinoma, bronchial margin not involved, pleural margin focally
 involved (see light microscopy)

 B: Lymph node, Station 7, biopsy
 - No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/1)

 C: Lymph node, R9, biopsy
 - No metastatic carcinoma identified {0/4)

 D: Lymph node, RlO, biopsy
 - No metastatic carcinoma identified {0/2)

 Corrunent:
 None

Intraoperative Consultation:
A frozen section is requested by Dr

 FSAl: Right upper lobe, lobectomy, bronchial margin
 - No in situ or invasive carcinoma identified


Clinical History:
The patient is with non-small cell lung carcinoma of the right upper lobe.

Gross Description:
Received are four appropriately containers.

Container A is additionally labeled "right upper lobe." Within is a plastic yellow biopsy cassette labeled FSAl.
Also within is the lobectomy specimen.

   ecimen fixation: formalin

Type of specimen/parts of lung received: right upper lobe partial lobectomy

Size of specimen: 13 x 12 x 4.5 em

Weight of specimen: 220 grams

Other attached structures: none

Tumor size: 4.5 x 4.1 x 3.5 em

Tumor description: ovoid, circumscribed, tan and solid with central softening

Relationship of tumor to bronchus: directly involving a medium sized bronchus

Distance of tumor to bronchial margin: 9 mm

Relationship/distance of tumor to pleura: the tumor grossly comes to within 1 mm of the visceral pleural surface
but not directly involving it (the overlying pleura is pink/purple and smooth)

Distance of tumor to other surgical margins: a 9 em linear stapled margin of resection runs parallel to the
longitudinal axis of the ovoid tumor; the tumors closest approximation to this stapled margin
is approximately 1 em

Presence/absence of satellite tumor nodules: absent

Description of nontumorous lung: unremarkable pulmonary parenchyma

Block Summary:

Al,A2 - tumors relationship to bronchus
A3,A4 ~ tumors relationship to pleura
·-=. ~ tumor
     - tumor at area of central softening
n/ - tumor/normal parenchymal interface
A8 - representative sections of normal parenchyma
A9 - en face section of previously inked hilum

Container B is additionally labeled "station 7." Within are two brown/black soft
tissue fragments measuring 1.1 x 0.5 x 0.4 em in aggregate. (              )

Container Cis additionally labeled "R9." It holds a 1.5 x 0.6 x 0.5 em tan/gray soft tissue specimen is
bisected and entirely submitted in block Cl.

  Jntainer Dis additionally labeled "RlO lymph node." Within is a 0.9 x 0.5 x 0.4 em tan/gray soft tissue
specimen which is bisected and entirely submitted in block Dl

Light Nicroscopy:
I,ight microscopic examination is performed by Dr.

The frozen section diagnosis is confirmed.

(Specimen A)

Tumor histologic type (WHO classification) : adenocarcinoma, with focal papillary
features

Tumor histologic grade {WHO classification) : poorly differentiated


Tumor size (greatest dimension): 4.5 em diameter

Histologic assessment of surgical margins: bronchial margin not involved

Pleural involvement: focally {+) {block A3)

In situ carcinoma: no definite in situ carcinoma identified

Invasion:
angiolymphatic - present {small vein)
perineural - not identified

Lymph nodes {by node group): no metastatic carcinoma identified {0/7 total)