UUID: E1E42600-CEEE - 4009 -42E7- 08451530B167
                                                                                       TCGA-55-A4DG-81A-PR                            Redacted
                                                                             III IIIIIIIlIIIIIIII' IIIIIlIII1111I1I1III11I11I11II11111111 li iIIII
                                                                             III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII111IIIIlIIIIII
                                                                             III 11111Ihil II1111111111111111111111111lIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:

PROCEDURE DATE:           RECEIVED DATE:          REPORT DATE:



COPY TO :,




                                                                 CC             tc^1                       S
Pre-Op Diagnosis
Right lung upper lobe nodule                                                                       $ (LcJ^'?
Post-Op Diagnosis
Same as above
Clinical History
                                                                 (
                                                                         +
                                                                             U-^Pc            r-     o6-
Nothing indicated
Gross Description:
                                                                                                            c34 ,
Five parts

Container labeled'                1 - level 9 lymph node" is 1.0 x 0.7
x 0.3 cm irregular fragment of soft gray yellow fibrofatty tissue
entirely submitted in a single cassette.

Container labeled'                2 - level 10 lymph node" are 1.6 x
1.2 x 0.6 cm focally calcified fleshy gray black tissue fragments
which are sectioned and entirely submitted in two cassettes.

Container labeled'                3 - right upper lobe" has a
previously partially sectioned recognizable portion of pulmonary
parenchyma consistent with right upper lobe. This weighs as received
190 grams and measures 15.0 x 13.4 x 3.9 cm. The margin of
resection has a stapled bifurcated tertiary bronchus with an
adjacent partially fragmented 0.8 cm fleshy mottled gray black
nodule. The pleura is wrinkled mottled gray pink with moderate
anthracotic streaking. Noted at the apex slightly posteriorly is a
previously sectioned region which exposes a marginal 2.5 x 2.3 x 1.6
cm roughly wedge shaped gray tan firm fibrotic lesion with mottled
gray tan fibrotic cut surface. Noted at its nearest point 5.2 cm
from the bronchial margin a bronchial connection is grossly
identified. This lesion grossly extends to but not through the
pleura at the apex. The specimen is received after tissue harvest
for genomic study. Within the specimen container are two tissue
                                                  nmediately adjacent to
cassettes each labeled
the lesion are areas of subpleural honeycombing of the Thleura which
is grossly consistent within a
                             pink withcmoderat ysanthracotic streaking.
 parenchyma is spongy
 No significant fluid, haneyco cbt'ons are submitted labeled as
 identified. Representative se
 follows: A - shaved bronchial margin and penbronchi l edule;
                                                                  B -F -

 remaining lesion and surrounding tissue,
                                            G   - random
 parenchyma.
                                   4 - 4R lymph node" are 4.2 x 3.8 x
 Container labeled'            fir^fatty tissue fragments which
 1.2cmofgray tan yellowT
 scattered poorly defined areas f gray 0 cm. The specimen is
 The        tissue areas measu re P
     fleshyand
 sectioned      the fleshy tissue regions are entirely submitted in
  two cassettes.
                                  5 - level 7 lymph node" is 3.2 x 2.0
  Container labeled
  x 1.0 cm of fragmented gray yellow t o black fleshy and
                                                           fatty tissue
  fragments which is sectioned and e      ntirel ub itte
                                            ys m d        fh

  cassettes.


   Microscopic Description:
   See diagnosis.

   Final Diagnosis
   Lymph node, thoracic, level 9, excision:
    Negative for malignancy, one small node.
   Lymph node, thoracic, level 10, excision:
                            ; negative for malignancy, several iY mph node
    Reactive hyp e rp lasia
   fragments.                           granulomas are present.
    inactive, dystrophically calcified: g
    Lung, right upper lobe, lobectomy:
     Tumor characteristics:
      Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.
      Histologic grade: ii (moderately differentiated).
      Specimen integrity: Specimen intact margins can be evaluated.
      Tumor site: Posterior apex, subpleural.
      Tumor focality: Unifocal.
      Tumor size: 2.5 x 2.3 x 1.6 cm.
      Visceral pleural invasion: Malignancy extends to, but not through,
     the visceral pleura.
      Lymphovascui ar sp    ace v ole.
                               in asi n: Not identified.
      Tumor extension:           lica
                             a pp b
      Treatment effect Not identified.
      Surgical margin status:
      Tumor distan    ce    b  ronch al
                                    i
       Tumor distance from pleural surface: Less than 1 mm.
      Lymph node status:
       Total number of lymph nodes received: At least 20 (includes two
      hilar lymph nodes from
        lobectomy specimen, as well as parts 1, 2, 4 and 5 - see
      comment).
       Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: 0
       Other.
       The malignancy has a prominent fibrous stroma with a central area
       of scarring.
        pTN stage: pT1 b NO
       Lymph nodes, thoracic, level 4R, excision:
Reactive hyperplasia and scattered noncaseating granulomata.
Negative for malignancy, at least eight nodes.
Lymph nodes, thoracic, level 7, excision:
 Reactive hyperplasia and scattered noncaseating granulomata.
 Negative for malignancy, at least five nodes.



Comments                                                 granulomas.
Several of the lymph nodes contain small noncaseating
Two representative blocks from tw o s eparate sp
                                                ecimen ofs are each
                                              presence
stained for acid fast bacilli and fungi.
appropriately staining positive and negative controls, both are
negative. Clinical correlation is suggested , however.
 The total number of lymph nodes stated (20) represents a
                                nature of the specimens submitted as
 conservative estimate , as the
 number two, four and five do not permit an accurate counting of
 total lymph nodes.
 At the request of the undersigned patholo ist, these slides have
  been additionally reviewed by Dr.i", who concurs with the
 diagnosis.
                                            P campus.
  This report has been finalized at the



  <Sign Out Dr. Signature>




                                                                       Crit"                                     No
                                                                       Diagnosis Discrepancy
                                                                       Primary Tumor Site Disc e panty
                                                                       HIPAA Discrepancy
                                                                       Prior Malignancy Histo
                                                                       Dual/Synchronous Primary
                                                                       Case is irclel: .                 IFIED
                                                                       Reviewe