.-

                       '
                                                                    .,
        FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS:
        Lung, right upper lobe, biopsies:
        Adenocarcinoma - see comment.

      COMMENTS:
      Histologic sections show an invasive carcinoma consisting
      primarily of sheets of cells with scattered, discrete
     glandular structures. The neoplastic cells have prominent
     nucleoli, and do not have the cytologic appearance of small
     cell carcinoma, grade II neuroendocrine carcinoma (atypical
      carcinoid) or large cell neuroendocrine carCinoma.
      Immunohistochemical stains are performed. The neoplasm
     stains positively for cytokeratin CK7 as well as forTTF-1.
     The neoplasm is negative for CK20, high molecular weight
     keratin SK and p63. The findings support the diagnosis of
    _gdenocarcinoma of lung primary. There is weak staining for
     synaptophysin. It 1s felt 1n that this is an example of
     non-neuroendocrine carcinoma {adenocarcinoma) that shows
     positive staining for synaptophysin, and that it should not
     result in classification of a neuroendocrine tumor.
     Current NCCN practice guidelines recommend determination of
     EGFR and KRAS mutation status in adenocarcinoma of lung to
     help select patients for Tyrosine-Kinase Inhibitor (TKI)
     therapy. EGFR-activating mutations have been shown to be
     significantly associated with response to TKis and KRAS
     mutations are associated with TKI resistance. They are
     mutually exclusive in NSCLC. Additionally, recent data show
     that ALK (Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase) gene rearrangements in
     adenocarcinoma of lung are associated with resistance to
     TKis and have favorable response rates to Crizotinib, the
    ALK inhibitor agent currently in clinical trials. Mutation
                                                                         ,·
    analysis for KRAS and EGFR-TK domain and ALK gene
    rearrangement by FISH is available as the Lung Cancer
    Mutation Panel. Testing may be performed on
    paraffin-embedded tissue from the primary or metastatic
    tumor or pleural fluid cell block. These tests are
    available on request as a panel or as individual assavs.
    This case has been reviewed by
                         who agree with the diagnosis.




I
    /
                                                              ;




    FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS:
    Bronchus,right, washing:
    Negative for malignant cells.                      ,
    Respiratory epithelial cells, squamous cells and macrophages
    are present.

    COMMENTS:

    CLINICAL HISTORY:
    The patient is a                with a right upper lobe
    lung mass.      ··

    CODES:
    88112




    GROSS DESCRIPTION:
    A. A liquid based preparation is reviewed that has been
    prepared from 7 mls of bloody red fluid submitted as
    bronchial washing.



                                                                   ,,
                                                                        ..




I                                                                            :?.




    /