COLLECTION DATE:

SPECIMENS:
1. F/S LUL WEDGE RESECTION (CHEST)
2. STATION 9 LYMPH NODE
3. STATION 11 LYMPH NODE
4. LEFT UPPER LOBE COMPLETION LOBECTOMY
SEE ADDENDUM


Reason For Addendum #1: Molecular Studies
Reason For Addendum #2: Molecular Studies
Reason For Addendum #3: Molecular Studies
Reason For Addendum #4: Biomarker Report

DIAGNOSIS:

1,4. LUNG, LEFT UPPER LOBE: WEDGE RESECTION AND COMPLETION
LOBECTOMY
- ADENOCARCINOMA, MICROPAPILLARY PREDOMINANT (3.5 CM), SEE
NOTE.
- THE MARGINS OF RESECTION ARE FREE OF TUMOR.
- THREE BENIGN LYMPH NODES (0/3).

Note: The tumor consists of micropapillary (70%), acinar (10%),
lepidic (10%) and giant cell (10%) components. Material will be
sent to an outside laboratory for mutational studies and the results
will be reported in addendum.
Specimens: 1: F/S LUL WEDGE RESECTION (CHEST)
4: LEFT UPPER LOBE COMPLETION LOBECTOMY

LUNG: Resection
SPECIMEN
Specimen: Lobe(s) of lung (specify)
Left Upper
Procedure: Lobectomy
Specimen Integrity: Intact
Specimen Laterality: Left
Tumor Site: Upper lobe
Tumor Focality: Unifocal
TUMOR
Histologic Type: Adenocarcinoma
Histologic Grade: G3: Poorly differentiated
EXTENT
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension (cm)
3.5cm
Additional Dimension (cm): 3.4cm x 1.8cm
Visceral Pleura Invasion: Not identified
Tumor Extension: Not identified
MARGINS
Bronchial Margin
Bronchial Margin Involvement by Invasive Carcinoma: Uninvolved by
invasive carcinoma
Vascular Margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Parenchymal Margin: Not applicable
Parietal Pleural Margin: Not applicable
Chest Wall Margin: Not applicable
ACCESSORY FINDINGS
Treatment Effect: Not applicable
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Present
LYMPH NODES
Extranodal Extension: Not identified
STAGE (pTNM)
Primary Tumor (pT):
pT2a: Tumor greater than 3 cm, but 5 cm or less in greatest
dimension surrounded by lung or visceral pleura without
bronchoscopic evidence of invasion more proximal than the lobar
bronchus (i.e., not in the main bronchus); or Tumor 5 cm or less
in greatest dimension with any of the following features of extent:
involves main bronchus, 2 cm or more distal to the carina; invades
the visceral pleura; associated with atelectasis or obstructive
pneumonitis that extends to the hilar region but does not inolve the
entire lung
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN)
pN0: No regional lymph node metastasis
Distant Metastases (pM): Not applicable
ADDITIONAL NON-TUMOR
Additional Pathologic Finding(s): Emphysema

2. LYMPH NODE, LEVEL 9: BIOPSY
- ONE BENIGN LYMPH NODE (0/1).

3. LYMPH NODE, LEVEL 11: BIOPSY
- ONE BENIGN LYMPH NODE (0/1).


Pathologist


CLINICAL HISTORY AND PRE - OPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:
Lung mass.

MACROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received in four parts, each labeled with the
patient's name.

1. Part one is received fresh, labeled 'left upper lobe wedge
resection, r/o carcinoma'. It consists of a wedge shaped portion of
lung, measuring 9 x 4 x 4 cm. The specimen weighs 36 grams. There is
a staple line identified on the specimen measuring 9 cm and 3 cm in
length. The staple line is inked black and the pleural surface is
inked blue. The pleural surface shows dimpling at one area. Serial
sectioning of the specimen reveals a gray white firm irregular mass,
measuring 3.5 x 3.4 x 1.8 cm. The mass is 1 cm away from the staple
line. The mass has a gray white cut surface. The remainder of the
lung has tan pink spongy parenchyma. One piece cut from the mass is
submitted for intraoperative microscopic examination. Representative
sections are submitted.

2. Part two is received in formalin, labeled 'station #9 lymph
node'. It consists of a single piece of tan maroon irregular soft
tissue, measuring 0.6 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is bisected and
entirely submitted.

3. Part three is received in formalin, labeled 'station #11 lymph
node'. It consists of a single piece of tan maroon irregular soft
tissue consistent with lymph node, measuring 1.5 x 0.9 x 0.2 cm. The
specimen is bisected and entirely submitted for microscopic
examination.

4. Part four is labeled 'upper lobe completion lobectomy'. It
consists of a lobe of lung measuring 15 x 8 x 4 cm. The specimen
weighs 169 grams. There are two staple lines identified on the
specimen, measuring 15 cm and 8 cm in length. The staple line is
inked black. The bronchus measures 2.5 cm in diameter and the
bronchial vessels measures 2.0 cm in diameter. The bronchial
vascular margin is shaved. Serial sectioning of the specimen shows
tan maroon spongy parenchyma. No definite mass lesion or fibrosis is
identified. Representative sections are submitted for microscopic
examination.




SUMMARY OF SECTIONS:
1A mass, frozen section control
1B-1C mass (entire measurement)
1D-1E mass
1F stapled margin, entirely submitted
1G tumor, with adjacent to lung parenchyma close to the staple
line
1H normal lung parenchyma
2A single bisected lymph node
3A single bisected lymph node
4A bronchial margin of resection
4B vascular margin of resection
4C three peribronchial lymph nodes
4D stapled margins
4E-4H random sections from the unremarkable lung parenchyma

SPECIAL PROCEDURES:




INTRA - OPERATIVE CONSULTATION:

1. Lung left upper lobe: wedge resection (Frozen Section)
- Adenocarcinoma, probably invasive.

Result reported by




Intra-Operative Consultation #1 performed by




ADDENDUM #1 FOR MOLECULAR TESTS:

KRAS and EGFR were sent on                 for patient
          . The test is to be performed on tissue from case
                          The case report, slides, and blocks for the
cited accession number were retrieved from archives. The pathologist
whose signature appears below reviewed the original pathology
report, examined candidate H&E slides, and selected block 1D
appropriate to the specifications of the ordered molecular analysis.
x9 unstained slides were prepared and forwarded to                where the
subject molecular test will be performed. An addendum report will be
issued when the results of this molecular test are available.
Addendum #1 performed by




ADDENDUM #2:




MOLECULAR ONCOLOGY

KRAS MUTATION ANALYSIS

          Specimen #

Body Site: Left upper lobe of lung
Specimen Type: Slides
Clinical Data: Adenocarcinoma

RESULTS: Wild-type gene.

INTERPRETATION:
No mutations were identified at codons 12 and 13 of the KRAS gene.

COMMENT:
Mutations in the KRAS gene are reported to be associated with poor
prognosis, and resistance to targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor
therapies in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). KRAS
mutations occur in 15-30% of NSCLC patients and are strongly
associated with adenocarcinoma and smoking history.

This assay analyzes codons 12 and 13 in exon 2 of the KRAS gene;
based on the current literature, approximately 98% of mutations are
expected to occur in these codons. The analytical sensitivity of
the assay is approximately 10%; thus mutations present in a low
percentage of cells may not be detected. This test is validated
for use in identifying KRAS codon 12 and codon 13 mutations in
fresh, frozen, or formalin-fixed paraffin embedded tissue. In
particular the test performance has been established in samples of
colorectal cancer and non-small cell lung carcinoma which harbor
these mutations, although several other tissues are also known to
harbor KRAS mutations (e.g. tumors of pancreas, bile duct, ovary,
appendix, etc.).

Analysis of EGFR mutation or gene amplification status may provide
additional information regarding this patient's probability of
response to targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapies, if
clinically indicated. See references.


METHOD/LIMITATIONS:
Tissue sections are reviewed by a pathologist and relevant tumor is
selected for analysis. DNA is isolated from the sample, quantified
and amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using primers to
exon 2 of the KRAS gene. PCR products are subjected to single
nucleotide primer extension to detect mutations at codons 12 and 13;
primer extension products are analyzed using capillary gel
electrophoresis and fluorescence detection. False positive or
negative results may occur for reasons that include genetic variants
or somatic heterogeneity of the tissue sample.

REFERENCES:




This test was developed and its performance characteristics
determined by                       . The laboratory is regulated under
the                                                                  as
qualified to perform high complexity clinical testing. This
particular test is not considered a stand along test and should be
used only in the context of other diagnostic tests or clinical
work-up related to treatment decisions.

                    and its logo are trademarks of
and used by                                      a wholly-owned
subsidiary of          under license.
and           are operated independently from




Electronically signed by:
Addendum #2 performed by




ADDENDUM #3:


EGFR Mutation Analysis




Body Site: Left upper lobe of lung

Clinical Data: Adenocarcinoma

RESULTS: No mutation detected

INTERPRETATION: No mutations were identified; however 18-20% of
patients with non-small-cell lung cancer and without identifiable
mutations are reported to be responsive to EGFR tyrosine kinase
inhibitor therapies.


COMMENT: This assay analyzes exons 18-21 of the EGFR tyrosine
kinase domain; based on the current literature, the vast majority of
mutations are expected to occur in these exons. The analytical
sensitivity of the assay is 10-20%, thus mutations present in a low
percentage of cells may not be detected.

Most data published to date pertain to gefitinib (Iressa(r)).
Similar data have been seen in studies using erlotinib (Tarceva(r)).

Homozygosity for the frequently occurring sequence change 2361 G>A
was identified. The polymorphism is not likely to have clinical
significance.

This test is validated for non-small cell lung carcinoma. The
clinical significance and utility of this test in other tumor types
is unknown.

METHOD/LIMITATION:
Tissue sections are reviewed by a pathologist and relevant tumor is
selected for analysis. DNA is isolated from the samples, quantified
and amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using primers to
exons 18-21 of the EGFR gene. PCR products are analyzed by
bi-directional direct DNA sequencing using capillary electrophoresis
and fluorescence detection. False positive or negative results may
occur for reasons that include genetic variants or somatic
heterogeneity of the tissue sample.

REFERENCES:




DISCLAIMER:
This test was developed and its performance characteristics
determined by                       . The laboratory is regulated under
the                                                                  as
qualified to perform high complexity clinical testing. This
particular test is not considered a stand alone test and should be
used only in the context of other diagnostic tests or clinical
work-up related to treatment decisions.

                    and its logo are trademarks of
and used by                                      a wholly-owned
subsidiary of          under license.
and           are operated independently from


Electronically signed by:




Telephone


Addendum #3 performed by




ADDENDUM 4:
Fluorescence In-Situ Hybridization (FISH)




Body Site: Left upper lobe of lung
Clinical Data: Adenocarcinoma




INTERPRETATION:
Negative for a rearrangement involving the ALK gene. Three to four
copies of ALK were observed in 64.0% of cells, and five to six
copies of ALK were observed in 16.5% of cells, suggesting the
presence of a neoplasm with gains of chromosome 2 or 2p.

Probe #Nuclei Examined % Positive Nuclei %
Control values
2p23(ALK)V 200 0 0-2.2
A total of 200 cells were scored.

FINDINGS: FISH was performed on paraffin embedded tissue sections
using dual color break-apart probe                     ) to the
gene at 2p23. this probe flanks the entire gene. If a rearrangement
involving ALK is present, inversion or translocation, one of the two
probe signals separates as one red (orange) and one green signal. In
this specimen, separated signals were present in 0% of the nuclei
scored. Based on laboratory validation data, these results are
within the normal limits.

COMMENTS: N/A

ISCN RESULTS: nuc ish(ALKx3 4)[128/200]/(ALKx5 6)[33/200]

This test was developed and its performance characteristics
determined by                        . It has not been cleared or
approved by the US Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. This
test is used for clinical purposes. It should not be regarded as
investigational or for research. The laboratory is regulated under
the                                                             CLIA) as
qualified to perform high complexity clinical testing.

                        its logo are trademarks of
and used by                                      a wholly-owned
subsidiary of          under license.
and           are operated independently from
Electronically signed by:




Addendum #4 performed by


The electronic signature attests that the named Attending
Pathologist has evaluated the specimen referred to in the signed
section of the report and formulated the diagnosis therein.

This report may include one or more immunohistochemical stain
results that use analyte specific reagents.
The tests were developed and their performance characteristics
determined by        Department of Pathology.

They have not been cleared or approved by the US Food and Drug
Administration.
The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not
necessary.