TCGA-44-3398




SPECIMEN
    A. Lymph node level 10
    B. Right lower lobe
    c. Lymph node level 7
    D. Lymph node level 3
    E. Lymph node R4

CLINICAL NOTES


GROSS DESCRIPTION
             A. Received in formalin, labeled "lymph node level 10"
and
    consists of multiple pieces of black soft tissue measuring 2 ern in
    greatest aggregate dimension. AS-1.
             B. The specimen is received unfixed labeled "right loNer
             lobe" and consists of a lobe weighing 266 grams and
    measuring 16 x 12 x 7 ern. There is a subtotal probable mass
    measuring 2.5 x 1.5 x 2 em. There is a puckered appearance over the
    mass. Portions of the specimen are taken for research purposes.
    Additional sections after fixation. There is a stapled margin on
one
    side of the specimen measuring 5 em in length and there is a
stapled
    bronchial margin as well.
             C. Received in formalin, labeled "lymph node level 7" and
              consists of multiple pieces of black soft tissue
measuring
    2 em in greatest aggregate dimension. AS-1.
             D. Received in formalin, labeled "lymph node level 3" and
             consists of a piece of white and black and yellow soft
    tissue measuring 2.5 x 1.5 x 0.3 em. AS-1.
             E. Received in formalin, labeled 11 lymph node - R4" and
             consists of multiple pieces of yellov1 and black soft
tissue
    measuring 3 x 3 x 0.5 em in aggregate. AS-2.
MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
    A.  There is no evidence of malignancy in any of ten lymph node
    pieces.

    B.        Tumor type:  Non-small cell carcinoma
              Tumor grade:   3 out of 3
              Mitotic Index:   1 mitoses/10 HPFs (1 HPF ~ 0.19 sq mm)
              Tumor size:  2.5 em
              Bronchial resection margin: Negative for malignancy
              Pulmonary margin of resection:   Negative for malignancy
              Pleura:  Negative for malignancy
              Vascular invasion: Absent
              Attached lymph nodes:   There is no evidence of malignancy
              in
                                      any of 3 lymph nodes
              pTNM Stage: T1b NO
              Non-tumorous lung: Mild to moderate emphysema

    C. There's no evidence of malignancy in any of multiple lymph node
    pieces. Approximately 12 pieces are present.

    D.   A single lymph node is negative for malignancy.

    E.   There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 16 lymph node
    pieces.


DIAGNOSIS
    A.  Lymph node, level 10, biopsy:  There is no evidence of
    malignancy in any of ten lymph node pieces.

    B.  Lung, right lower lobe 1 resection: Poorly differentiated
    non-small cell carcinoma
DIAGNOSIS
     C.Lyrnph node, level 7, biopsy: There is no evidence of malignancy
in
     any of 12 lymph nodes pieces.
     D. Lymph node, level 3, biopsy: A single lymph node is negative for
     malignancy.
     E. Lymph node, R4, biopsy: There's no evidence of malignancy in any
     of 16 lymph nodes pieces.




                         --- End Of Report ---