SURGICAL PATHOLOGY
                      Case Number :

Diagnosis:
A, B: Lung, right upper lobe lesion, wedge biopsy
- Adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated, 2.5 cm diameter,
consistent with lung primary, without pleural invasion, surgical
margins not involved.


Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
       n section was requested by Dr. in OR       on        at
       .

FSA1: Right upper lobe mass, wedge biopsy
- Adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated
- Defer to special stains to exclude metastasis

Drs. at

Frozen Section Pathologist:, M.D., PhD.

Clinical History:
The patient is a   -year-old female with a right upper lobe lung
mass. CIS: PMHx (   for grade 3, ductal breast     inoma (ER
weak, PR negative, HER2 score 0) diagnosed in         eviewed
here as OS06-). Positive smoking history prior        .


Gross Description:
Received are two appropriately labeled containers.

Container A: Received for frozen section is an 8.0 x 4.5 x 3.0
cm wedge of lung. There is an ill-defined, slightly firm and tan
nodule at the resection edge. This measures 2.5 x 1.8 x 0.5 cm.
The tissue beneath the stapled tissue is submitted in blocks A1
and A2. Representative sections of the nodule are submitted in
blocks A3 and A4. A portion of the nodule is frozen as FSA1.


Container B is additionally labeled "right lung, upper lobe
wedge." The specimen is received as a 54.9 gram aggregate of two
pieces of lung tissue. The first piece measures 4.3 x 1.7 x 0.9
cm. The larger piece measures 8.5 x 8.0 x 2.9 cm. Blue ink has
been applied to the area of previous wedge biopsy. There is an
area of defect in between the two pieces, representing the
initial wedge biopsy. Within the lung tissue, there is a
subpleural hard white/firm mass, 3.5 x 3.0 x 3.0 cm in greatest
gross dimensions. Sections of normal lung and the large mass
were submitted for Tissue procurement. The staple lines are
removed and the tissue beneath is submitted in blocks B1 and B2.

B3-B5 - representative sections through tumor

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr.

The frozen section diagnosis is confirmed.

Sections show a gland-forming carcinoma, without mucinous
differentiation. Features favor lung over breast primaries. To
clarify lineage, immunohistochemistry was performed, and shows
immunoreactivity for TTF-1 and HER2, with no reactivity for
GCDFP or ER. This immunophenotype supports lung primary.