TCGA- 38- 4627


  .agnosis:
 A: Lung, right upper lobe, lobectomy.
 -Adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated, 2.7 em diameter, without angiolymphatic invasion, without pleural
 involvement, bronchial margin not involved.
 -Lymph nodes, peribronchial -Metastatic adenocarcinoma (1/4}, without extracapsular extension.

 B: Lymph node, R4, removal.
 - No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/1).

 C: Lymph node, station 11, removal.
 - No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/1) ,


Comment:
None.

Clinical History:
The patient is with right NSCJ,C, in for right thoracotomy.

Gross Description:
Received are three appropriately labeled containers.

Container A is additionally labeled "RUL."

Specimen fixation: formalin

Type of specimen/parts of lung received: right upper lobectomy

Size of specimen: 13.8 x 9.2 x 3.0 em

Weight of specimen: 215 grams

Other attached structures: n/a

  Jmor location: central

Tumor size and description: The tumor mass is a 2.7 x 2.0 x 1.6 ern firm, tan mass with stellate borders and
focal areas of gray discoloration scattered across the cut surface.


Relationship of tumor to bronchus: does not grossly involve

Distance of tumor to bronchial margin: approximately 2.9 em

Relationship/distance of tumor to pleura: the tumor nodule is grossly abutting the overlying blue inked pleura

Distance of tumor to other surgical margins: There is a complex staple line running across the specimen, and the
tumor nodule is at least 0.6 em from the staple line.

Presence/absence of satellite tumor nodules: absent

Involvement of attached structures by tumor: n/a

Description of nontumorous lung: Dark, red/tan, soft, spongy and aerated lung parenchyma with no other lesions
or abnormalities identified.

Comment: The following is submitted to Tissue Procurement: the bronchial margin was removed and the next cross
section of bronchus was given to Tissue Procurement, representative tumor and representative normal
lung were also given to Tissue procurement.

Block Surrunary:

Al    bronchial margin and vascular margins
A2 - one peribronchial lymph node candidate, bisected
A3 - one peribronchial lymph node candidate
A4,A5 - tumor overlying pleura
A6 - tumor and adjacent parenchyma
 ·1 - uninvolved lung


Container B is additionally labeled 11 R4." It holds a 0.8 x 0.5 x 0.3 em fragment of dark purple/gray tissue
which is bisected and submitted in block Bl, NTR.

Container Cis additionally labeled "station 11." It holds a 0.6 x 0.5 x 0.3 em fragment of dark gray/red soft
tissue, which is submitted in block Cl,


Light Hicroscopy:
 i_ght microscopic examination is performed by

(Specimen A)

Tumor histologic type (WHO classification) : adenocarcinoma

Tumor histologic grade {WHO classification) : moderately differentiated

Tumor size {greatest dimension): 2.7 em diameter

Histologic assessment of surgical margins: negative

Pleural involvement: not identified

In situ carcinoma: not identified
Invasion:
angiolymphatic - not identified
perineural - not identified

Lymph nodes (by node group): peribronchial 1/4, R4 0/1, station 11 0/1

Extracapsular extension of tumor in lymph nodes: not identified

Findings in nontumorous lung: anthracotic pigment




                                                      •