CGA-64-1677

inical History/Diagnosis: Lung Cancer

Source of Specimen(s):

1: Piece of 6th Rib Right

2: Wedge Resection Right Upper Lobe

3: RLL Check Broncial Resection Margin
4: Level 7 Lymph Node

5: Level Right 4 Lymph Node

6: Level 10 Right Lymph Node

7: Level 3 Lymph Node

Gross Description:
Received in seven parts.
Source of Tissue: 1. Labeled #1, "piece of right 6th rib"

Gross Description: Received fresh in a container labeled with patient's
name and medical record number labeled "piece of right 6th rib". It
consists of a fragment of rib measuring 1.3 x 1.3.x 1.0 cm. Itis
bisected disclosing the usual bone with no suspicious lesions or masses,

Entirely submitted in 1A, following decalcification.
DO OO Re AS AR OR Oe OK OK 2 ae ee 2 2 OK oie 2K eH KK OK aK oe OR a 2 2 OK oe Ko oe oR oe oe he oe ie 2 oo fe oe OK OR oR OK OK OE

Source of Tissue: 2, Labeled #2, "wedge resection right upper lobe”

Frozen Section Diagnosis: 2FS- SUBPLEURAL SCAR; NO TUMOR SEEN.

Gross Description: Received fresh in a container labeled with patient's

name and medical record number labeled "wedge resection right upper lobe".
It consists of a wedge of dusky gray lung tissue measuring 5 x 2 x 1.5

cm. The specimen is received previously sectioned. Sections disclose an
ill-defined area measuring 2.3 cm. The pleura in this area is somewhat
thickened. No obvious lesions or masses are identified. One representative
section was submitted for frozen section and the residue is submitted in

2S. Additional tissue is submitted in 2A-2C.

HE FR aR AR i 2 ap 2 is ee 2 oe a ie HE Ae AR Os a a eH 2 i a OK aK 2 ae 2K OK OK 0 OK oo oR OK RR OK OK a OE OK ook ok

Source of Tissue: 3. Labeled #3, "RLL"

Frozen Section Diagnosis: 3FS- LYMPH NODE ADJACENT TO BRONCHIAL MARGIN
WITH METASTATIC CARCINOMA, ACTUAL MARGIN FREE OF TUMOR.

Gross Description: Received fresh in a container labeled with patient's

name and medical record number labeled "right lower lobe". It consists of
a 224 gram dark-red lobe of lung measuring 17 x 9x 7. cm. Half of the
margin is procured for frozen section and the residue is submitted in 3FS.
The diaphragmatic surface is unremarkable, Lateral and slightly inferior,
there is a large area of pleura. Also in this area there is a marked area

of fullness. Sections disclose a 4 x 4 x 3 cm pink firm tumor. The tumor
is 4.5 cm from the margin. Elsewhere the pleura and remaining lung tissue
is grossly unremarkable. At the hilum, the vascular margins are normal.
The bronchial tree is opened and is grossly free of any tumor. A few

hilar and peribronchial lymph nodes are found measuring up to | em. A
lymph node adjacent to the bronchial margin was submitted for frozen
section.

Designation of Sections: 3A-3B- tumor in relationship to pleura, 3C- tumor
in relationship to adjacent uninvolved lung tissue, 3D- vascular margins,

3E- hilar nodes, 3F- uninvolved lung tissue
De of oO aR oe fe OK KR OK oe he OR oe oR aK RO oR RO oR oR RK eo Kk oe a KK oo Ro Oe oo og OR OR OR RR KK

Source of Tissue: 4. Labeled #4, "level 7 lymph node"
Frozen Section Diagnosis: 4FS- METASTATIC CARCINOMA.

Gross Description: Received fresh in a container labeled with patient's
name and medical record number labeled "level 7 lymph node". It consists
of a few blackish-gray lymph nodes measuring collectively 1.2 x 1,0 x 0.6
em. All of the tissue is entirely submitted and the residue is submitted

in 4FS,

RO IG GIORGIO GO OO oo Gi ido oi dok kok ick a oo ok

Source of Tissue: 5, Labeled #5, "level 4 lymph nodes"
Frozen Section Diagnosis: SFS- NO TUMOR SEEN.

Gross Description: Received fresh in a container labeled with patient's
name and medical record number labeled "level 4 lymph nodes". It consists
of a single grayish-black lymph node measuring 1.5 x 0.9 x 0.7 cm,

Entirely submitted for frozen section and the residue is submitted in SFS.
OE PR AS OR fe Oe 2 ah ae 2 a gfe eo aie ie eae oe Ee oe 8 2 a os OK fe aK ee ois ogc 2K 2 oe 2 oe OE OO 2K CO aft OR OO oe OR OR ok OK oR oR

source of Tissue: 6. Labeled #6, "level 10 lymph nodes”
Frozen Section Diagnosis: 6FS- NO TUMOR SEEN.
Gross Description: Received fresh in a container labeled with patient's

name and medical record number labeled "level 10 lymph nodes". It consists
of a single grayish-black lymph measuring 0.9 x 0,8 x 0.7 cm. Entirely

submitted for frozen section and the residue is submitted in 6FS.

Pa nde ute ate abe ate abe abe ate ale ale nfs ute ale aby als abe ade ale ab

Source of Tissue: 7, Labeled #7, "level 3 lymph node”
: ae ‘ - 3
Gross Description: Received fresh in a container labeled with patient's
name and medical record number labeled "level 3 lymph node". It consists
of a single black lymph node measuring 0.7 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm, Submitted in
toto in 7A,
2,2 He a ae 2 ak a ok 2k a oe ok a GK aK oR OK a ok ako aK oe oe oR a oe ok ok a aK ao oko ae a ok OK a ooo ao ok ok ook ok oo ok Rok ok oo ak OK
Final Diagnosis:
1. Portion of 6th rib, right, excision:
- No tumor seen.

2. Lung, right upper lobe wedge, excision:
- Subpleural scar, No tumor seen.

3. Lung, right lower lobe, lobectomy:

- Adenocarcinoma, acinar type, grade III (4 cm), invading visceral pleura.
- Bronchial and vascular margins negative for tumor.

- Inked parietal pleura margin negative for tumor,

- Metastatic adenocarcinoma in two of four lymph nodes (2/4).

- Uninvolved lung with mild emphysema. . |

4, Lymph node, level 7 (excision): 7
- Metastatic adenocarcinoma in one of five lymph nodes (1/5).

5, Lymph node, level 4 (excision):
- One lymph node, No tumor seen (0/1).

6, Lymph node, level 10 (excision):
- One lymph node, No tumor seen (0/1).,

7, Lymph node, level 3 (excision):
~ One lymph node, No tumor seen (0/1).

Stage: pT2,N2,Mx.

