LEFT PNEUMONECTOMY

Clinical Details:
Left pneumonectomy for bronchogenic carcinoma.

Two specimens received:


I: LEFT LUNG

Macroscopy:
The upper lobe measures 160 x 110 x 35 mm in an infused state and displays an apical scar. The
lingular appears collapsed. Centriacinar emphysema is apparent on sectioning the upper lobe. Distal
airways contain mucus. The lower lobe measures 160 x 120 x 60 mm an in infused state. There is a
large tumour involving the lateral basal segment of the inferior lobe, measuring 55 x 38 x 25 mm in
maximum dimension. The tumour abuts the pleura and the pleura is slightly irregular over its surface.
Lymph nodes at the hilum of the lower lobe are obviously involved by metastatic tumour. No
endobronchial tumour is identified. Tumour extends to within 45 mm of bronchial resection margin.
On sectioning, the tumour is solid and cream in colour and displays a central area of necrosis. It has a
well circumscribed margin. The uninvolved lung parenchyma displays mild centriacinar emphysema.
[A, bronchial resection margin; B, RS oflymph nodes detached from specimen; C-D, upper lobar
lymph nodes; E, apical upper lobe; F, lateral segment upper lobe; G, lower lobar lymph node; H,
tumour with adjacent pleura; I-J, further RS of tumour; K, RS of superior segment left lower lobe; L,
RS of posterior basal segment lower lobe.l

Microscopy:
Sections show a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma which is showing blood vessel, lymphatic and
pleural involvement. In the area of pleural invasion, there is fibrinous exudate covering the surface.
The carcinoma is composed of solid nests, strands of cells and some well defined glandular structures.
Focal clear cell change is identified. The tumour appears well clear of the bronchial resection margin.
The resection margin shows evidence of acute bronchitis. The lymph nodes in the region of the lower
lobe bronchi, show evidence of metastatic adenocarcinoma as does the separately submitted detached
nodule. This nodule is solid tumour and does not contain recognizable lymph node. The lung away
from the tumour shows evidence of mild emphysema only. An apical cap is noted.


2: INFERIOR PULMONARY LIGAMENT NODE

Macroscopy:
Specimen consists of a group of four adjacent lymph nodes ranging between 5 and 15 mm in maximum
dimension. One of these nodes is obviously involved by tumour. [1 TS of each node .] [T]

Microscopy:
Sections show involvement of one of the lymph nodes by metastatic adenocarcinoma.

Summary:
Left lung: Poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with blood vessel and lymphatic permeation and
involvement of peribronchial and inferior pulmonary ligament lymph nodes.

P-OIIOO T-28000 M-81403
P-01140 T-08000 M-81406