Date Recd:


                        SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT


SPECIMEN
    A. Lingula
    B. Level 10 lymph node
    C. Level 7 lymph node
    D. Level 5 lymph node

CLINICAL NOTES
    PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS:   Lung mass.

GROSS DESCRIPTION
             A. Part A is submitted fresh for tissue procurement,
             labeled "lingula". It consists of an elongated portion of
    lung tissue, measuring 18 x 4 x 2 cm. maximally. It has been
    amputated along an entire edge, which has steel clips and paper tape
    present. There is an area of pleural puckering opposite the tape,
    which has drawn the pleura into a stellate-like area, with a
    palpable mass deep to that. The pleura is focally torn along
    another portion of the specimen. Black ink is applied over the area
    of the scar and then the specimen is serially sectioned. This
    reveals the presence of a nodular tumor mass immediately beneath the
    pleura, in the region of the above-mentioned scar. That tumor mass
    measures maximally 2 x 1.5 x 1.3 cm. Sections through the remaining
    pulmonary parenchyma reveal a consolidated bloody red tissue,
    without other focal nodules present. There is some adherent fat
    present on the pleural surface. Representative tumor and normal
               ions are submitted for tissue procurement, per request of
                 Sections after fixation.
                 Part B is submitted fresh, labeled "Level 10 lymph
             node". It consists of multiple black and red tissue
    portions. Three are present, each measuring 6 to 8 mm. in greatest
    extent. AS-1
             C. Part C is submitted fresh, labeled "Level 7 lymph
             node". It consists of a single 7 mm. fragment of black and
    red tissue. AS-1
             D. Part D is submitted fresh, labeled "Level 5 lymph
             node". It consists of two portions of fatty red and black
            with an aggregate dimension of 1 cm. AS-1


MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
    Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.
    Histologic grade: Moderate to poorly differentiated.
    Primary tumor (pT): Tumor measures 2 x 1.5 x 1.3 cm and does not
    involve the visceral pleural surface (pT1).
    Margins of resection: Negative.
    Direct extension of tumor: Absent.
    Venous (large vessel) invasion: Negative.
    Arterial (large vessel) invasion: Negative.
    Lymphatic (small vessel) invasion: Negative.
    Regional lymph nodes (pN): The level 5, 7, and 10 mediastinal nodes
    are negative for metastatic carcinoma (pN0).
    Distant metastasis (pM): Cannot be assessed (pMX).
   Other findings: Emphysematous bullae.     Pleural based fibrous scar
   with old hemorrhage.

   4, 3x3

DIAGNOSIS
    A. Lung, lingula, wedge resection:
         Invasive moderate to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma.
         The visceral pleural surface and margin of resection are free
         of tumor. Emphysematous bullae.
         Pleural based fibrous scar with old hemorrhage.

   B. Lymph node, level 10, resection:
        Negative for metastatic carcinoma.

   C. Lymph node, level 7, resection:
        Negative for metastatic carcinoma.

   D. Lymph node, level 5, resection:
        Negative for metastatic carcinoma.




                                                  )




                       --- End Of Report ---