HISTORY
  (R) pneumonectomy for malignancy.

  MACROSCOPIC
  Four specimens received:

  1: The specimen is labelled ' right lung' and consists of a right pneumonectomy measuring 215 mm
  superior to inferior, 180 nun anterior to posterior and 60 mm medial to lateral in·the inflated state. On
  the pleural surface of the medial aspect of the lower lobe there is an area of puckering abutting the hilar
  resection margin measuring approximately 70 x 40 x 55 mm. On sectioning, a pale poorly-defined
  firm mass is present in the lower lobe extending from the bronchus and hilar resection margin and
  measuring 50 x 45 x 70 mm. The tumour is 4 mm to the closest bronchial resection margin and up to 2
  mm from the interlobar fissure, 25 mm from the lateral pleural surface and appears to involve the
  pleura on the medial aspect of the lobe. No other lesions are noted in the upper or middle lobes, the
  lung parenchyma appearing normal. Please note the lung has been sampled for research. [Bronchial
  margin and pulmonary artery margin, 1A; hilar resection margin, IB-C; bronchial resection margin,
  ID; tumour and medial pleural surface, IE; tumour and bronchus, IF; tumour to interlobar fissure, 1G;
  tumour, IH; tumour and lung parenchyma, 1I; normal lung tissue lower lobe, 11; normal lung tissue
  middle lobe, lK; normal lung tissue upper lobe, lL; peribronchial lymph nodes, IM-O].

  2: The specimen is labelled 'hilar lymph node' and consists of a piece of dark brown tissue measuring
  11 x 4 x 5 mm. [Wrapped, BIT, 2A].

  3: The specimen is labelled' subcarinallymph node right' and consists of a piece of pale firm tissue
  covered in fat measuring 38 x 32 x 24 mm. On sectioning, there are five lymph nodes within the tissue,
  the largest measuring 26 x 12 x 10 mm. [Large lymph node, 3A-C; 1 lymph node bisected, 3D; 2
  lymph nodes bisected, 3E].

4: The specimen is labelled 'upper medial sternal node (right)' and consists of a piece of fatty tissue
. .a lymph node measuring 20 x 9 x 10 mm. [Bisected and BIT, 4A].


  MICROSCOPIC
  1: Sections show a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. In areas, there is production of
  abundant mucin by the tumour cells. A small micropapillary component is identified. Numerous
  psammoma bodies are identified within the tumour. The lesion is arising in the region of the hilum and
  is invading into soft tissue around bronchi and large pulmonary vessels. A separate deposit measuring
  1.4 mm is identified in the random sections from the lower lobe and there is a deposit measuring 0.7
  mm in diameter in the random sections from the middle lobe. Carcinoma is identified in the random
  sections from the upper lobe but this is in a lymphangitis carcinomatosa pattern. Pleural invasion is not
  identified. There is no blood vessel invasion but there is prominent lymphatic permeation is seen. No
  perineural permeation is identified. Lymphatic permeation by carcinoma is identified within the
  lamina propria of the bronchial resection margin. Tumour approaches the hilar resection margin. In
  most areas carcinoma is separated from hilar tissues that in visceral pleura but in some areas the lung
  has been transected. In one area in particular, tumour is approximately 0.5 mm from the diathermied
  margin. Peribronchial lymph node metastases are seen. All the lymph node Cross sections appear to
  contain at least some tumour and there is lymphatic permeation within the surrounding soft tissue. The
  lung shows evidence of mild centriacinar emphysema that is best seen within the upper lobe.

   2-4: Sections show focal to extensive involvement of the lymph nodes by metastatic adenocarcinoma.

   SUMMARY
   1-4: Right lung and hilar, subcarinal and upper 'medial sternal' lymph nodes:
   A: Moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma; 70 mrn in maximal dimension.
   B: Prominent lymphatic permeation but no blood vessel or perineural invasion present.
   C: Lymphatic permeation at the bronchial margin; tumour very close to hilar soft tissue margin; no
   definite pleural invasion identified.
   D: Peribronchial, hilar, subcarinal and upper 'medial sternal' lymph node metastases.
   E: T4N2Ml
   F: Non-neoplastic lung: Lymphangitis carcinomatosa; mild emphysema.
L--=




       T-28000 M-81403 Pl -03000