SEE SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT BELO

HISTORY
Right UL bronchial ca.

MACROSCOPIC
Three specimens received

1: The specimen is labelled 'right upper lobe' and consists of a right upper lobectomy
measuring 145 x 105 x 45 mm. On the medial surface, inferior the hilum is a staple
line measuring 70 mm in length. This is removed (4 mm of tissue) and it, and the
bronchial margin is inked blue. There is extensive puckering of the pleura superiorly
at the apex over a distance of 40mm. This surface has been inked black. Underneath
the puckering is a tan and black nodule with a pushing edge that measures 52 x 51 x
40 mm. The tumour appears to abut the pleural surface in multiple areas. It is 20 mm
from the bronchial resection margin. No other lesions are identified within the lung.
[lA, bronchial margin; 1B, two hilar lymph nodes; lC-F, RS of tumour including
pleura; 1G, RS of normal lung tissue Note: specimen has been sampled for research]

2: The specimen is labelled 'number 10 lymph node' and consists of four pieces of tan
and black tissue, the largest piece measuring 15 x 12 x 10 mm. [BIT, 2A]

3: The specimen is labelled' number 11 lymph node' and consists of a piece of tan
II! • • •  ssue measuring 12 x 9 x 6 mm. [3A, lymph node bisected and BIT]
            OIl




MICROSCOPIC
1: Sections show a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with 30% lepidic, 30%
acinar, 35% papillary and 5% micropapillary growth. Part of the tumour is composed
of elastotic scarring. The lesion is subpleural and focal visceral pleural invasion is
identified. Blood vessel and probable lymphatic permeation is seen. No perineural
permeation is identified. The lesion is well clear of the bronchial resection margin.
No lymph node metastases are seen. Away from the tumour, the lung shows evidence
of mild emphysema and a patchy mild inflammation including interstitial chronic
inflammation, small numbers of airspace and interstitial non-necrotising granulomata
and rare plugs of organising pneumonia. The inflammation is best seen adjacent the
tumour but focally involves the distant lung.

2: Sections of the lymph node fragments show reactive changes only. There is no evidence of
malignancy. Prominent sinus histiocytosis is noted.

3: Sections of the lymph node show reactive changes only. There is no evidence of malignancy.
Prominent sinus histiocytosis is noted.

SUMMARY
Right upper lobe and No.1 0 and 11 lymph nodes:
A: Moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma; 52 mm in maximal dimension.
B: Blood vessel and probable lymphatic invasion present; no perineural invasion
seen.
C: Visceral pleural invasion identified; clear of bronchial margin.
D: No lymph node metastases.
E: T2bNOMx
F: Non-neoplastic lung: Mild emphysema and patchy mild inflammatory changes
with some features suggesting extrinsic allergic alveolitis (hypersensitivity
pneumonitis).




SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT
1: Special stains confirm the presence of invasion through the elastin layers of the
visceral pleura. In this section, tumour is not present on the surface.




T-28000 M-81403 PI-03000