..   ,
    FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS:
    A Level 10 lymph node:
    Benign, hyperplasia.
    B. Level 11 lymph node:
    Benign, hyperplasia.
    C. Right upper lobe of lung lobectomy:
    Carcinoma.
    Tumor characteristics:
    Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma with mucinous and
    bronchoalveolar features.                 ''
    Histologic grade: Low-grade (1/3).
    Tumor site: Peripheral.
    Tumor locality: Unifocal.
    Tumor size: 3.0 x 2.0 x 2.0 em.
    Visceral pleural invasion: No.
    Lymphovascular space invasion: Not identified.
    Tumor extension: Tumor confined to lung.
    Treatment effect: Not identified.
    Surgical margin status:
    Tumor distance from bronchial margin: 2.5 em.
    Tumor distance from parenchymal margin: 2.5 em.
    Tumor distance from pleural surface: less than 0.1 em.
    Lymph node status (utilizing all specimens submitted):
    Total number of lymph nodes received: Seven.
    Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma:
    None.
    Other:
    Other significant findings: the frozen section diagnosis is
    confirmed.
    pTN stage: pT1 ,NO.
    D. Level 4 lymph node:                                                  .'
    Benign hyperplasia.


    COMMENTS:

     CLINICAL HISTORY:
     Preoperative Diagnosis:                   left upper lobe
     mass, positive smoker, question malignancy. Please call




I
   results to
   Postoperative Diagnosis:
   Symptoms/Radiologic Findings:                                            ·.tf,
   SPECIMENS:
   A Level 10 lymph node                                                             ..
   B. Level 11 lymph node                                                           ..,
   C. Right upper lobe with frozen section
   D. Level 4 lymph node

   CODES:
   88305
   88305
   88309
   88331
   88342
   88342
   88342
   88342
   88305




   GROSS DESCRIPTION:
   The specimen is received in four containers labeled with the

   Container A is aCICIItionally labelea ..1evel 10 lymph node"
   and contains a 2.0 x 1.0 x 0.5 em, yellow-tan, firm, fatty
   nodule consistent with possible lymph node. The specimen is
   bisected to reveal a black, anthracotic cut surface. The
  _snpr:im"n ;~ entirely submitted in cassette A labeled !

   Container B is additionally labeled "level 11 lymph nodes"
   and contains a 1.5 x 1.5 x 1.0 em, tan-brown, rubbery nodule
   bisected to reveal a gray-black anthracotic cut surface.
                                                                       ,,
   The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette B labeled

    Gontainer C is additionally labeled "right upper lobe" and
                                                                                          . ,.
    contains a 13.0 x 10.5 x 4.0 em, purple-pink, moderately
    anthracotic lung lobe featuring an 8.5 em in length stapled
   parenchymal margin as well as an additional stapled vascular
    margin and stapled bronchial margin, each measuring 0.5 em
   in length by 1.5 em in diameter. The bronchus is opened to
   reveal a yellow-tan striated endothelium. No discrete          ·.
   masses are identified. The stapled line is removed and the
   underlying parenchyma is inked black. The specimen is
   serially sectioned to reveal a 3.0 x 2.0 x 2.0 em,
   yellow-tan, glistening, mucoid mass that abuts the inked
                                                                                                 ;.'.
   pleura and approaches to within 2.5 em of the vascular,
   bronchial and inked parenchymal margins. The remainder of
   the cut surface is beefy red and congested with no
" additional lesions. Five possible anthracotic parabronchial
 , lymph nodes are identified ranging from 0.3 to 0.5 em in
   greatest dimension. A representative section of the mass is
           submitted for frozen section with "1e residual entirely        '•,     .·~ t,~.).~ :•.
           resubmit!Ari for oermanent section in cassette C1 labeled .    . :f:~·.~,~-        •.- t,
                                                                                ·.-if:
                             Additional representative sections are
           submitted in cassettes C2-10 designated as follows: C2
           bronchial and vascular margin, en face; C3 inked parenchymal
                                                                                         · ' 'I
           margin, perpendicular; C4 through 8 entire mass to inked
           pleura, perpendicular; C9 uninvolved parenchyma; C10 five
           whole possible lymph nodes. Additionally, a yellow and green
           cassette are submitted for genomic research, each labeled

           Container D is additionally labeled "level 4 lymph node"
           and contains a 2.8 x 1.7 x 1.2 em, yellow-tan fibrofatty
           soft tissue. On section and palpation, ill defined areas of
           black discoloration are identified, however no discrete
           lymph nodes are palpated. The specimen· is entirelv
           submitted in cassettes D1-21abeled           ,,


           INTRA-PROCEDURE CONSULTATION:
           Frozen section diagnosis part C: Consistent with
           adenocarcinoma with mucinous features. Per



           MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION:
           The frozen section diagnosis is confirmed. The neoplastic
           cells are CK7 and TIF positive as well as CK 20 and CDX2
_______Jn~e~oal~·a__________




                                                                                                       ..




/                                                                                                           ;,>,




       /