SEE SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT BELO~

HISTORY
LLL adenocarcinoma.

 MACROSCOPIC
 Four specimens received:

 I: The first specimen is labelled' left lower lobe' and consists of a left lower lobe oflung measuring
 160 CSI) x 100 CAP) x 90 mm CML). The pleural surface is puckered on the anteromedial aspect of the
 superior portion of the lobe and underlying this there is a firm mass. This has been incised prior to
 reception in the laboratory. Otherwise the pleural surface is umemarkable. There are two suture lines
 extending from the hilum. One extends superiorly and measures 40 mm the other inferiorly and
 measures 35 mm. Sectioning reveals a large poorly circumscribed tumour mass underlying the area of
 pleural puckering described. Defining its dimensions macroscopically is difficult but it would be
 approximately 70 CSI) x 60 (AP) x 70 mm (ML). It is made difficult as the tumour merges
 imperceptibly with probable endogenous lipoid pneumonia in the surrounding parenchyma. The
 tumour mass extends from the anterior pleural surface to the posterior pleural surface and extends to
 within 10 mm of the bronchial resection margin. A discrete firm nodule is noted in the mid lateral
 portion of the lobe which measures 5 x 5 x 5 mm. This appears to be separate from the main tumour.
 [lA, bronchial resection margin; IB-IC peribronchial lymph nodes; ID-IF tumour and relationship to
 anterior pleural surface; IG, probable tumour and superior aspect oflobe; IH, tumour and posterior
 aspect oflobe; II, inferior aspect of tumour; lJ, section including the firm small nodule described; IK,
 section of normal lung.] Specimen has been sampled for research.

 2: The second specimen is labelled 'pulmonary vein' and consists of what appears to be a piece of
 lymphoid tissue measuring 14 x 8 x 7 mm. Sectioning reveals only lymph node. [Bisected, BIT, 2A.]

 3: The third specimen is labelled 'No.9 lymph node' and consists of a piece of nodal tissue measuring
 33 x 15 x 17 mm. [Trisected, BIT, 3A-3B.]

 4: The fourth specimen is labelled 'No. 10 lymph node' and consists ofa single piece of nodal tissue
~ 24 x 14 x 14 mm.            [Bisected, BIT, 4A.]


 MICROSCOPIC
 I. Sections show a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. The tumour has a papillary architecture
 and includes areas with psammoma bodies and 'Orphan Annie' nuclei. There is a small component
 with features of rnicropapillary differentiation. Although this may represent a lung primary, special
 stains are being performed to exclude a thyroid or an ovarian primary. Surrounding the mass, there is a
 patchy lepidic growth pattern and carcinoma is identified both within the airspaces and lymphatics in
 the section from the normal lung. The nodule in the mid lateral portion of the lobe is a focus of tumour
 with a surrounding lepidic growth pattern. The lesion is subpleural and the tumour invades into the
 visceral pleural surface. There is possible focal surface involvement. Blood vessel and lymphatic
 invasion is present. No perineural permeation is seen. Adenocarcinoma is present within all the
 peribronchial lymph nodes including one at the bronchial resection margin. Extracapsular extension is
 noted. Also present at the bronchial resection margin, there is lymphatic permeation within the
 mucosa. No dysplasia is seen. There is insufficient normal lung parenchyma for assessment of
 abnormalities.

 2. Sections show a lymph node involved by metastatic adenocarcinoma.

 3. Sections show lymph nodes involved by metastatic adenocarcinoma.

 4. Sections show lymph nodes involved by metastatic adenocarcinoma.

 SUMMARY
 Left lower lobe and pulmonary vein, No.9 and No. 10 lymph nodes:
 A: Moderately differentiated papillary adenocarcinoma; special stains being performed; at least 70 mm
 in maximal dimension with extensive involvement of the surrounding lung including the section of
"normal" lung.
B: Blood vessel and lymphatic invasion present but no perineural permeation is seen.
C: Visceral pleural invasion identified; bronchial margin involved Cmucosallymphatic permeation).
D: Lymph node metastases within all sampled nodes.
E: T4N2MX
F: Non-neoplastic lung: Involved by carcinoma




SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT
The tumour cells are stains strongly for TIF 1 but are negative for thyroglobulin. Some patchy
positivity is identified with progesterone receptor markers but no convincing positivity is seen with the
oestrogen receptor markers. This immunohistochemical profile would support a diagnosis of primary
pulmonary adenocarcinoma.




T-2S000 M-S1403 PI-03000