SEE SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT BELO\-V

HISTORY
Adenocarcinoma.

MACROSCOPIC
Two specimens submitted.

1: The first specimen is labelled 'left upper lobe' and consists of a lobe of lung
measuring 200 x 80 x 20 mm in the fresh state. Overlying the apex and the lateral
aspect of the apex of the lobe is an area of pleural tethering with an underlying tumour
mass. The remainder of the pleural surface shows no specific abnonnality apart from
extensive carbon pigmentation. The lobar bronchus has been transected t1ush with the
hilar soft tissue and has two lumens at this point. Small peribronchial anthracotic
nodes are noted, none of which appears macroscopically to be involved by a tumour.
Sectioning reveals an apical tumour mass which appears to be bilobed. The combined
maximum size of this lesion is 32 mm. The more superior lobule is approximately 20
mm in diameter and shows foci of central necrosis. The more lateral and inferior
lesion is approximately 12 mm in diameter and has a solid cream to tan cut surface.
In some areas the lobules appear to be separated by 2 to 3 mm of unremarkable lung
parenchyma. Both lobules abut the overlying pleura. No other lesions are identified
on serial slicing through the parenchyma. However there is severe emphysema. [1 A,
bronchial resection margin; 1B, peribronchial lymph nodes; 1C-I D longitudinal
sections through tumour including overlying pleura and both lobules; IE, sections of
inferolateral solid nodule with overlying pleura; 1F, uninvolved lung parenchyma.]

2: The second specimen is labelled 'left hilar lymph node' and consists of three
        ts of focally anthracotic and fatty tissue. [BIT,2A.]


MICROSCOPY
1: Sections show two adenocarcinomas. The first has a predominantly acinar architecture with a small
amount of surrounding bronchioloalveolar type growth. Ext~nsive blo.od vessel invasion is noted and
there is possible lymphatic penneatioll: The other lesion is a papillary adenocarcinoma. The lesions
are separated by approximately 5 inm by unremarkable lung. A third focus of adenocarcinoma with a
bronchioloalveolar pattern is present within the random section oflung. This measures 5 mm in
diameter. Overlying both tumours, there is scarring of the pleura and features suspicious for invasion.
Special stains will be performed. No perineural permeation is identified. The lesion is well clear of the
bronchial resection margin. No lymph node metastases are seen. The uninvolved lung shows evidence
of emphysema.

2: Sections of the lymph nodes show reactive changes only. There is no evidence of malignancy.

SUMMARY
1-2: Left upper lobe and left hilar lymph nodes:
A: Three foci of moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma; 20 mm (acinar), 12 mm (papillary) and 5
mm (bronchioloalveolar) in maximal dimension.
B: Extensive blood vessel invasion; probable lymphatic permeation but no perineural permeation
present.
C: Possible pleural invasion identified; special stains being performed; clear of bronchial margin.
D: No lymph node metastases.
E: TINO (awaiting pleural stains)
F: Non-neoplastic lung: Mild emphysema.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT
1: Tumour invades into the visceral pleura overlying the tumour 'with the acinar architecture. It is not
definitely on the pleural surface. There is no invasion of the visceral pleura by the papillary carcinoma.
Both tumours stain positively for CK 7 and TTF 1. CK 20 is negative. This in.dicates both lesions are
pulmonary in origin but considering their different architecture as they appear to represent synchronous
tumours .

SUMMARY
1-2: Left upper lobe and left hilar lymph nodes:
A: Three foci of moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma; 20 mm (acinar), 12 mm (papillary) and 5
mm (bronchioloalveolar) in maximal dimension.
B: Extensive blood vessel invasion; probable lymphatic permeation but no perineural permeation
present.
C: Visceral pleural invasion identified overlying the acinar pattern carcinoma; clear of bronchial
margin.
D: No lymph node metastases.
E: T2 NO (acinar pattern carcinoma) TINO (papillary and bronchioloalveolar pattern carcinomas)
F: Non-neoplastic lung: Mild emphysen:a.




T-28000 M-81403 PI-03000

                             (