Surgical Pathology Final Report




Final Diagnosis                                                                I
Left lower lobe of lung, surgical resection with operating room consultation~
       Pulmonary adenocarcinoma (7 em in maximum dimension).
       Tumor does not penetrate lung pleural surface.
       Bronchial margins of surgical excision free.
       No lymph avascular invasion is identified.
       Four (4) peribronchial lymph nodes negative.

#5 subaortic lymph node dissection:
      Multiple fragments of lymphoid tissue negative for malignancy.

#9 Pulmonary ligament lymph node dissection:
      Two (2) negative lymph nodes.

#6 Para-aortic lymph node dissection:
      One (1) negative node.

#8 Paraesophageallymph node dissection:
      Three (3) negative nodes.

#7 Subcarinallymph node dissection:
      One (1) negative node.

Comment: This case corresponds to a pathological AJCC stage of T2b.NO.




Clinical Information
Adenocarcinoma LLL


Operating Room Consultation
Left lower lobe lung adenocarcinoma.                                           I
ORC - Tissue from tumor, paranormal and normal submitted for genomics studies. I
No FS requested.
Visceral pleura inked black over tUMor"


Gross Description
Surgical Pathology Final Report




"A, left lower lung lobe," The specimen consists of a 19.5 x 13.6 x 6.8 em portion            The pleural surface is blue-gr y.
There is a 2 em firm, puckered area present on the pleural surface. This area            inked black. On sectioning. there is 7 x
67 x 5.7 em soft, gray-Ian, friable mass, which abuts the pleural surface                to within 5 em of the bronchial marg n.
The remaining lung parenchyma is red-brown and markedly congested,                           1lesions or areas of interest are
grossly identified. Four possible peribronchial lymph nodes are i                            size from 1.2 to 1.4 em. "At ,"
bronchial margin: "A2," vascular margins: "A3," mass with                                       "A6," mass with adjacent
parenchyma; "A7-AB," peribronchial lymph nodes.

                                                                          • ••IIi"",, 9,.eo cassette labeled
                                                                                     ,

"8, 5 subaartic." The specimen consists of a 1.4 x 1.3 cm ragged, anthracotic portion of lymphoid tissue. "8," fragments, !all.
                                                                                                                                 ,
"C, #9 pulmonary ligament" The specimen consists of2 anthracotic lymph nodes, 'tJhich measure 0.7 and 0.8 cm. "C," 4ip, aiL

"0, #6 para aortic. "The specimen consists of a 1.3 x 1 cm red-gray lymph node. "0;" 3p, all.

"E, #8 paraesophageaL" The specimen consists of3 portions of red-gray lymphoid tissue ranging in size from 0.7 x 0.5t~ 2.2 x
1.2 cm. "El-E3," fragments, aiL                                                '                                     .
                                                                                     1
                        specimen consists of a 1,8 xl cm red-gray lymph node with a small amount of attached fat. "F," ~p. aiL




                                                                                                                                     I,