£
Patient Resnlts Report -
Patient Name: . . . . . . . . . ..
MR#:             b              Age: _                                  Sex: M

                                    T~HOLOGY RESULTS (LABORATORy) -              Final
                        (Reported_


Results:

REPORT:


           SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT



       PatielltNam_

           Accession • • •lr7l~t

       Med.Ree.U
               . . . . .•
           Billing Type: Inpatient

       Location:



       Service: Surgery

       Gender: M

           z£                                           ..
       Taken ~eceived_ Reported




       Specimen(s) Received



       A: A P window lymph nodes

       B: Posterior hiJar lymph node

       c: Inter lobar
       D: Hilar node

       E: Left upper lobe bronchial margin




       Pathologic Diagnosis


             n
       >IA       _   Lymph nodes, AP window, excision: No evidence of

       malignancy in six lymph nodes (0/6).




                                                          Page    I of 4
                    ---
Patient Results Report

                                        Age: _                       Sex: M



     UB U _ Lymph nodes, posterior hilaT, excision: no evidence of

     malignancy in one lymph node (011).



     "C" - Lymph node, intralobar, excision: No evidence of

     malignancy in one lymph node (0/1),



     "Ott _ Lymph node, hilar, excision: No evidence of malignancy in

     two lymph nodes (012).



     "E" - Lung, left upper lobe, excision:

         Poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma.

         Tumor size: 3.5 cm.

         All surgical resection margins arc dear (tumor does

     not involve the pleura and is 1.2 em from the bronchial resection

     margin).

         No evidence of malignancy in three peribronchial lymph

     nodes (013).

         No evidence of lymphovasculnr space invasion.

         Adjacent lung tissue with emphysematous changes .




      •
     Clinical History

     Left upper lobe cancer.




     Intraoperative Consultation




                                                    Page       2 of 4
                                                                  Sex: M

 "E" -   Left upper lobe: Bronchial margin negative for

 malignancy (microscopic frozen section).




 Gross Description



"N' -     Received in fonllaiin labeled nAP window lymph nodes"

consists of a 3.8 x 3 x 1 em aggregate of fibroadipose tissue,

which is bisected for potential lymph nodes. "AI" - five intact

lymph nodes. A 3 x 1.5 x 0.8 em lymph node is serially sectioned

and entirely submitted as "A2-J."



"B" -    Received in foonalil1 labeled "posterior hilar gland

lymph node" consists of a 2.8 x 1.8 x 0.8 em lymph node, which is

sectioned and entirely submitted as "81."



"e" -    Received in fonnalin labeled "intralobarll consists of

a 2.8 x 1.3 x 0.7 em lymph node, which is serial1y sectioned and

entirely submitted as "eJ."



"0" -    Received in fonnalin labeled "hilar" consists of two

lymph nodes, 0.3 x 0.7 x 0.4 and 2.2 x 0.7 x 0.5 cm. 'Ille lymph

nodes are differentially inked blue and green, bisected, and

entirely submitted as "D 1."



"P -     Received fresh for frozen section labeled "left upper

lobe" consists of a 313 gram (post resection weight), 17 x II x 6

em lobe oflung. The pleura is purple-tan with a small amount of

anthracotic pigmentation and an area of pleural retraction in the

superior aspect of the specimen. This area of pleural retraction




                                                Page     3 of 4
 Patient Results Report

 MR
                                  _..       Age: _                         Sex: M

          is inked green. TIle bronchial margin is removed and frozen en

          face as "FS-EI," remnant entirely submitted as "EI.II Sectioning

         demonstrates a 3.5 x 3.5 x 2.0 em finn white to gray ill-defined

         mass with scalloped borders clearly in the area of pleural

         retraction. This mass grossly comes to within 1.2 em of the

         bronchial margin. Sections of the remaining specimen

         demonstrates soft red-brown crepitant parenchyma with distal

         dilated air spaces, which arc present throughout but are most

         marked in the superoposterior aspect of the lung. 'lllcrc arc no

         additional masses identified grossly. "EI II - bronchial margin

         (frozen section remnant), "E2" -lobar lymph nodes and vascular

         margin, en facc, IIE3_4" - mass with extension towards bronchial

         margin, "ES" - mass with relationship to overlying pleura, "E6"-

         mass with relationship to adjacent parenchyma, "E7" - parenchyma

         with dilated air spaces, and "£8" - grossly unremarkable

         parenchyma.




         Microscopic Description



         Microscopic examination has been pcrfonlled on all slides. The

         pathologic diagnosis encompasses the essential microscopic

         findings of this case.




Notes:




                                                        Page     4 of 4