ID   Gross Description
Case
  ID

            Labeled right lower lobe (bronchial margin).
            Received fresh for
            intraoperative consultation is a 162 g lower lobe of
            lung measuring 14.5 x
            11.5 x 3.5 cm. The pleural surface is tan to gray-
            brown and lightly
            wrinkled with 3 subpleural nodular structures ranging
            from 0.4 to 0.6 cm
            along the base. Along the posterolateral aspect near
            the base is a 2.7 x
            1.0 cm firm tan subpleural mass that comes to
            within approximately 5 cm of
            the bronchial margin, which is shaved and submitted
            for frozen section. The
            overlying pleura is puckering and is focally inked
            blue. Sectioning through
            the separate subpleural nodules reveals glistening
            gray-tan cut surfaces.
            The background lung is tan to red and spongy white
            to white-tan hilar lymph
            node measuring 0.5 and 0.6 cm.
Microscopic Description



The bronchial margin is negative for carcinoma. In the section from the
bronchial margin, a small lymph node is identified which is negative for
metastatic carcinoma. Also, there are two additional hilar lymph nodes
which are both negative for metastatic carcinoma. The lung mass is an
invasive poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma merging with a peripheral
bronchioloalveolar type pattern. The invasive carcinoma focally involves
the visceral pleura surface. In this area, free floating tumor cells are
seen in blood clot external to the visceral pleura surface. The vascular
margins are negative for neoplasm. No angiolymphatic space involvement by
tumor is seen. The separate subpleural nodules are consistent with small
foci of metaplastic epithelial proliferations (honeycombing). These nodules
are composed of epithelial cells that have a mucinous as well as
nonmucinous appearance and many demonstrate cilia. There is a focus of
squamous metaplasia associated with one of these areas. There is no nuclear
atypia. Nonneoplastic lung shows emphysematous features.
Immunohistochemical stains are performed for CK7, CK20, TTF-1, CDX 2 and
Napsin A. Control material for each individual stain demonstrates
appropriate staining. The malignant cells are positive for Napsin A, CK7
and TTF-1. There is focal positivity for CK20. The malignant cells are
negative for CDX 2. These findings support the interpretation of a primary
lung adenocarcinoma.
Diagnosis Details                                                       Comments



LUNG CARCINOMA CHECKLIST
1. Tumor Type: Adenocarcinoma.
2. Tumor grade: Poorly differentiated.
3. Tumor location: Right lower lobe.
4. Tumor size: 2.7 x 1.0 cm.
5. Angiolymphatic invasion: No.
6. Bronchial margin: Free of tumor.
7. Pleural involvement: Present, there is involvement of the visceral
pleural by invasive carcinoma.
8. Lymph nodes: 16 lymph nodes are negative for metastatic carcinoma
(0/16).
9. Size of largest metastatic deposit: N/A.
10. TNM: pT2 (PL2),N0,MX.
Formatted Path Report                                         Laterality



LUNG TISSUE CHECKLIST                                         Right-lower

Specimen type: Lobectomy
Tumor site: Lung
Tumor size: 2.7 x 1 cm
Histologic type: Bronchiolo-alveolar adenocarcinoma
Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated
Tumor extent: Visceral pleura
Other tumor nodules: Not specified
Lymph nodes: 0/16 positive for metastasis (Right lower lobe
artery, bronchial margin, subcari 0/16)
Lymphatic invasion: Absent
Venous invasion: Absent
Margins: Uninvolved
Evidence of neo-adjuvant treatment: Not specified
Additional pathologic findings: Not specified
Comments: None
Excision date




/   /