UUID:5767A419-6873-4FC8-BC3E- 930044E24943
                                                                                     TCGA-91-A4BD-61A-PR               Redacted
4
                                                                             III IIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIII II I IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII1111 IN
                                                                             IIIIIII Ih u HIHIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIN
                                                                             I I I I I I I 11111 I 11111111111111111 I 11111111111 11111111 I I

    Operative Procedure: Left lower lobectomy

    Specimen Received:
    A: Left lower lobe (FS)                                                           r NUS                     frI'-/Q/3
    B: Left inferior pulmonary ligament
    C: Left lower lobe #2
                                                              £ FF.   UjVA
    D: Sub carinal lymph node
    E: AP window
    F: Level 10 lymph node

    Final Pathologic Diagnosis:
    A. Lung, left lower lobe, excision:
       Adenocarcinoma with lepidic pattern
       Frozen section diagnosis confirmed.

    B. Soft tissue, left inferior pulmonary ligament, excision:
       Three lymph nodes, negative for malignancy (0/3).

    C. Lung, left lower lobe #2 , excision:
       Minimally invasive , non-mucinous adenocarcinoma , well-differentiated.
       Surgical margins are negative.
       See synoptic report.

    Lung cancer synoptic report
       Specimen:      Lobe of lung (left lower lobe)
    Procedure:      Lobectomy
    Specimen laterality:     Left
    Tumor site:     Left lower lobe
    Specimen integrity:      Intact
    Tumor size:     2.8 cm (greatest dimension)
    Tumor focality:     Unifocal
    Tumor histologic type: Adenocarcinoma, minimally invasive and non-mucinous,
    See Note.
    Tumor grade: Well differentiated, G1
    Visceral pleura invasion:       Not identified
    Tumor extension:        Not identified
    Margins:
          Bronchial margin:        Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
       Vascular margin:        Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
          Parenchymal margin:           Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
       Parietal pleural margin:      Not applicable
       Chest wall margin:      N/A
              Other attached tissue margins:       N/A

          If all margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma:
       Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin:        20 mm
                                                                                            riterta.
                                                                                           liagnosis Gsrtepancy
                                                                                            rimary Tuner Site Discrepancy
                                                                                            IIPAA Discrepancy
                                                                                            rior Malignancy History
                                                                                            lual;Synchronous Primar No
                                                                                                                      QUAUFIE       /
                                                                                                                            ate Reviewe
Specify margin:     Bronchial margin

  Treatment effect:   N/A
Lymph-vascular invasion:  Not identified

Pathologic Staging (pTNM):
   TNM Descriptors:       No descriptors
   Primary tumor (pT):      pTl b
   Regional lymph nodes ( pN): pN1
       Total number involved /examined :       1/17 (parts B, C, D, E, F)
          Left inferior pulmonary ligament 0/3 (part B)
                                             :
          Peribronchial, left lower lobe: 1 /8 (part C)
          Subcarinal : 0/3 (part D)
          AP window: 0/2 (part E)
          Level 10: 0/1 ( part F)
    Distant metastasis (pM):      pMX

    Additional pathologic findings: None

 D. Lymph node , subcarinal , excision:
    Three lymph nodes, negative for malignancy (0/3)

 E. Lymph node, AP window, excision:
    Two lymph nodes, negative for malignancy (0/2)

 F. Lymph node, level 10 , excision:
     One lymph node , negative for malignancy (0/1)

 The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were
 performed by the staff pathologist.


 Note:
 The tumor consist of primarily adenocarcinoma in situ with multiple minute foci
 of invasion none of which is greater than 5 mm. The tumor abuts the visceral
 pleura but does not show invasion.

 lntraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
 FSA: Left lower lobe:
     Adenocarcinoma.


  Gross Description:
  Received are six specimen containers, all labeled with the patient name,

  Part A is received fresh for frozen section evaluation additionally labeled,
  "left lower lobe (FSA)" and consists of a 1.6 x 1.5 x 0.3 cm portion of pink-tan
  nodular soft tissue which is submitted for frozen section evaluation (FSA) with
  residual frozen section tissue submitted in cassette A.
Part B is received in formalin and additionally labeled, "left inferior
pulmonary ligament" and consists of two nodular portions of tan-yellow
fibrofatty tissue not otherwise designated and having greatest dimensions of 1.2
and 1.8 cm, submitted in toto in cassette B.

Part C is received in formalin and additionally labeled, "left lower lobe #2"
and consists of the product of a left lower lobectomy having overall dimensions
of 19.5 x 11 by up to 4 cm. This specimen features essentially intact visceral
pleura with the exception of an umbilicated subpleural mass which has been
previously incised, the latter of which has dimensions of 2.8 x 2.2 x 1 cm and
which approaches to within 2 cm of the closest bronchial margin of resection.
This mass appears to remain in a sub visceral pleural location without extension
beyond the pleura. This mass arises within the central aspect of the left lower
lobe. Sectioning of the remaining lung parenchyma reveals no grossly
identifiable lesions. Significant emphysematous change is not grossly identified
and there are multiple peribronchial lymph nodes, none of which appear involved
by tumor, however exhibit anthracotic pigment. Sections are submitted as
follows:
    C1    bronchial and vascular margins of surgical resection left lower lobe
of the lung;
    C2-4 representative sections of mass central to left lower lobe;
    C5,6 random unremarkable left lower lobe of lung;
    C7 three whole peribronchial lymph nodes;
    C8 three whole peribronchial lymph nodes;
    C9 largest peribronchial lymph node bisected.

Part D is received in formalin additionally labeled, "subcarinal lymph node" and
consists of a single nodular portion of yellow lobulated fibrofatty tissue 2 x
1.8 x 1 cm. Within these tissues are at least three anthracotic laden lymph
nodes that range from 0.3 to 0.7 cm in greatest dimension submitted in cassette
D1 and remaining tissue submitted ini cassette D2. This portion of the case has
been submitted in its entirety.

Part E is received in formalin and additionally labeled, "AP window" and
consists of a single nodular portion of tan-yellow to gray-tan tissue which is
1.8 x 1 x 0.5 cm. Within this tissue there are two probable lymph nodes which
are sectioned and submitted in        in cassette E.

Part F is received in formalin and additionally labeled, "Level 10 lymph node"
and consists of a single 1.5 cm in greatest dimension anthracotic laden lymph
node which is bisected and submitted entirely in cassette F.

Microscopic Description:
The final diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination
findings.

END OF REPORT
Taken:                 :                  Gender: M