HISTORY
 Large cell Ca. Left upper lobe.

 MACROSCOPIC
 Three specimens received:

 I: The specimen is labelled '(R) upper lobe ' (note labelling discrepancy regarding side stated on
 request form and that on specimen container) and consists of a left upper lobe of lung measuring 240
 mm SI x 175 mm AP x up to 60 mm ML in the inflated and fixed state. On the medial aspect there are
 two stapled resection margins. Both of these are linear. One extends superiorly from the hilar margin
 for a distance of 50 mm and the other extends inferiorly from the hilar margin for a distance of 90 mm.
 Each of these is trimmed and inked blue. The pleural surface is purple to pink in colour with
 prominent anthracotic pigment. An area of pleural adhesion is present over the lateral aspect. In the
 upper pole of the lobe there is a tumour. The tumour measures 80 mm in maximum dimension. The
 tumour is subpleurally located and focally the pleural surface is distorted and puckered to the
 underlying tumour. Fibrous adhesions are present overlying this area. The adjacent lung shows
 emphysema. The tumour is located 20 mm from the bronchial resection margin and 10 mm from the
 nearest surgical margin. The cut surface of the tumour varies from yellow to pink. Some of the pinker
 areas have a very "fish flesh" appearance. Focal necrotic areas are also present. [lA, bronchial
 resection margin; IB, peribronchial lymph nodes; IC-D, representative sections of tumour; lE-H,
 representative sections of tumour and pleura; II, tumour and nearest surgical margin; lJ, pleural
 adhesion; 1K, distant lung] .

 2: The specimen is labelled 'lower lobe lymph node' and consists of a black lymph node measuring
 up to 11 mm in maximum extent. [2A, BIT].

 3: The specimen is labelled 'pulmonary vein' and consists of a nubbin of fatty and lymph nodal tissue
~ 15 x 15 x 5 mm.            Two anthracotic lymph nodes are identified. [3A, BIT].


 MICROSCOPY
 1: Sections show a moderate and poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with irregular zones of
 necrosis. The lesion is subpleural and infiltrates the overlying pleura. Vascularised pleural adhesions
 are present both adjacent to the tumour and away from the tumour. No unequivocal pleural surface
 involvement is seen and tumour is not present at the pleural margin. Blood vessel invasion is present.
 No lymphatic invasion or perineural permeation is identified. The tumour is clear of the bronchial and
 stapled surgical resection margins. The lymph nodes show reactive follicular hyperplasia, sinus
 histiocytosis and carbon deposition. No tumour is identified within the lymph nodes. The adjacent
 lung shows emphysema and respiratory bronchiolitis.

 2: The sections oflymph node show sinus histiocytosis and carbon deposition. There is no evidence of
 malignancy.

 3: The sections oflymph node show follicular hyperplasia, sinus histiocytosis and carbon deposition.
 There is no evidence of malignancy.

 SUMMARY
 1-3: Upper lobe oflung and lymph nodes:
 Moderate and poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma.
 Tumour size 80mm in maximal dimension (macroscopic).
 Pleural invasion present.
 Blood vessel invasion present.
 No lymphatic invasion or perineural permeation identified.
 Resection margins clear.
 No lymph node metastases.
 Pathological stage T2NO.
T-28000 M-81403 PI-03000