SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

SPECIMEN
    A. Level 10
    B. Left lower lobe
    C. Left upper lobe lymph node
    D. Subcarinal lymph node

CLINICAL NOTES
    PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Lung carcinoma

GROSS DESCRIPTION
             A. Received fresh labeled "level 10" is a 2.2 x 1.4 x 0.6
             cm. rubbery tan gray-black tissue in keeping with lymph
    node which is bisected and entirely submitted in one block.
             B. Received fresh for tissue procurement labeled "left
             lower lobe" is a 232 gram, 21.0 x 11.0 x 5.5 cm. lobectomy
    specimen with attached, 1 cm. in length, 2.5 x 0.9 cm. in diameter
    bronchial stump. The pleura is smooth to wrinkled tan pink-purple.
    A palpable mass is noted along the lateral aspect. On sectioning,
    there is a well-circumscribed 3.0 x 2.8 x 2.8 cm. congested pale
    tan/mucoid tumor mass which focally extends to within 0.3 cm. of
    the pleural surface (inked blue). A portion of tumor and a portion
    of normal parenchyma are submitted for tissue procurement as
    requested. The parenchyma throughout the remainder of the specimen
    is spongiform tan pink-red without additional mass lesion or
    abnormality. A single 0.4 cm. gray black tissue in keeping with
    lymph node is recovered from the hilum    epresentative sections are
    submitted in nine blocks as labeled.

   BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Bronchial stump margin; 2 - vascular margins; 3-5
   - tumor to inked pleural surface; 6 - tumor to normal parenchyma; 7
   and 8 - random normal; 9 - one whole hilar lymph node.

            C. Received fresh labeled "left upper lobe lymph node" is
           a 0.6 x 0.5 x 0.35 cm. slightly rubbery gray black tissue
   in keeping with lymph node which is bisected and entirely submitted
   in one block. AS-1.
            D. Received in formalin labeled "subcarinal lymph node" is
            a 1.3 x 1.0 x 0.4 cm. portion of fragmented tan gold fatty
   tissue with a scant amount of gray black lymphoid tissue.
      cimen is bisected and entirely submitted in one block.      .




MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
             A-D. Microscopic examination of the left lower lobe of
             lung and the separate lymph node specimens reveals:

   Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma, mucinous.
   Histologic grade: Well-differentiated.
   Primary tumor (pT): Tumor is 3 cm. in greatest dimension with no
   involvement of the pleura or a large stem bronchus (pT1b).
   Margins of resection: The vascular and bronchial resection margins
   are all negative for tumor.
Direct extension of tumor: Tumor invades pulmonary parenchyma with
    no extension to pleura.
    Venous (large vessel) invasion: Not identified.
    Arterial (large vessel) invasion: Not identified.
    Lymphatic (small vessel) invasion: Not identified.
    Regional lymph nodes (pN): A single lymph node is dissected from
    the left lower lobe. Additional lymph nodes are present in level 10
    and the separate left upper lobe lymph node and subcarinal lymph
    node all are negative for metastatic tumor (pN0).
    Distant metastasis (pM): Cannot evaluate, pMx.
    Other findings: The background pulmonary parenchyma is fairly
    unremarkable. The lymph nodes do show prominent anthracosis and
    some histiocytes associated with the anthracosis.
    3x3, 5

DIAGNOSIS
    A. Lymph node, level 10, biopsy:
          Single lymph node negative for metastatic tumor (0/1).
    B. Lung, left lower lobe, lobectomy:
          Adenocarcinoma, mucinous, well-differentiated, 3 cm. in
          greatest dimension (pT1b).
          Single lymph node negative for metastatic tumor (0/1).
          No lymphovascular space invasion identified. Bronchial and
          vascular margins are negative for tumor.
          Background pulmonary parenchyma is relatively unremarkable.
    C. Lymph node, left upper lobe, biopsy:
          Single lymph node negative for metastatic tumor (0/1).
    D. Subcarinal lymph node, biopsy:
          Single lymph node negative for metastatic tumor (0/1).




                       --- End Of Report ---