Physician Portal
                                                                                                 Page 1 of 1

 ~       TE;ST;_Syrgi~ill1'9thology



         Result Name                  Results                    Units             Reference Range
     ~   Surgical Pathology           COPY TO:
         COPY TO:

         "Frozen Sectiori Diagnosis:· Large c~ll carc-inoma_,- margins. _free
         Performed-by
          Pre-Op Diagnosis
         Left lung cancer
         Post-Op Diagnosis
         Same as above
         Clinical History
         Same as above
         Gross Description:
         Received in a single container labeled                 wedge
         resection left upper lobe. The specimen consists of a wedge
         resection of the lung measuring 9 x 6 x 1.5 em. The pleural surface
         is yellow to red tan and slightly anthracotic. On sectioning reveals
         a circumscribed white tan firm nodule measuring 2 em in greatest
         dimension that is 0.1 em from.the pleural surface and extends 1 em
         from the resection margin. A representative section was examined at
         the time of surgery. Received with the specimen are cassettes
         labeled             Representative sections are submitted as
         follows: A frozen section, B shaved resection margin, C through F
          additional sections from nodule.

         Microscopic Description:
         The slides labeled             are examined. See diagnosis.
         Final Diagnosis
         Lung, left upper lobe (wedge biopsy):
             Adenocarcinoma:
                 moderately differentiated
                 measuring 2.0 em in greatest diameter
               · extending up to but not through pleura
                 tumor identified within endothelial lined lyrnphovascular space
                 areas of fibrosis
                 lymph nodes: No lymph nodes resected {see comment)    PAS 9
         SPC-A
         CPT: 88307, 88331
         Comments
         The frozen section diagnosis is confirmed.
         In some areas dense fibrosis is present associated with the tumor.
         Although the adenocarcinoma grows along alveolar spaces, the areas of
         fibrosis remove this from the differential diagnosis of a
         bronchoalveolar carcinoma. The tumor focally extends up to the
         pleural surface but does not extend into the pleural surface.
         This test has been finalized at the               Campus,