SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

De-identified Specimen code

Patient Age/Sex | | M

SPECIMEN SUBMITTED:

Part A: POSTERIOR SEGMENT RIGHT
UPPER LOBE

Part B: LEVEL 10 R

Final Diagnosis

4. Right lung, upper lobe, wedge excision (A) Adenocarcinoma, solid predominant (40%) with
acinar (40%), and lepidic (20%) patterns.

- Mild centrilobular emphysema.

- See comment.

2, Lymph node, level 10R, excision (B) Hylanized lymph node, negative for neoplasm.

Diagnosis Comment:

1. The tumor measures 1.6 cm in greatest dimension. No invasion into or through the pleural is seen. The
parenchymal margin of excision is negative for neoplasm. Further studies to define the origin of this
adenocarcinoma will be performed and the results of those studies reported as an addendum.

intraoperative Diagnosis:
A. Adenocarcinoma. Margin negative.

Clinical Diaqnosis:
LUNG NODULES

Page 1 of 2
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Gross Description:

A, Received fresh for frozen section diagnosis labeled "posterior segment right upper lobe" is a wedge
of lung measuring 14.8 x 5.2 x 2.7 cm, and weighing 39.1 grams. A staple line is present and inked
orange. The pleural surface displays a puckered area measuring 1.2 x 0.8 cm and is located 3.2 cm
from the orange inked parenchymal margin. The remainder of the pleural surface is smooth and
glistening. The puckered area is inked blue. Upon sectioning, a stellate tan-gray firm nodule is identified
in the puckered region measuring 1.6 x 1.2 x 1.0 cm, and extending within 2.7 cm of the parenchymal
line of resection and appears to extend into, but not through the pleura. The remainder of the
parenchyma is unremarkable. Other masses, lesions, nodules are not present. The mass is totally
submitted. The nodule is totally submitted as follows: A1 nodule with closest pleural involvement, A2
perpendicular line of resection representative section, A3-A5 nodule with pleural surface, A6 remainder
of nodule totally submitted, A7 additional representative section of parenchymal margin, A8
representative section of apparent uninvolved tissue.

B. Received fresh is a tan-black nodule resembling lymph node measuring 0.4 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm. The
specimen is not sectioned. Totally submitted in one cassette.

Microscopic:
{Not Entered}

Page 2 of 2
