RIGHT LUNG AND LYMPH NODES

Clinical Notes:
_emale.
SOB.
Ex-smoker.
SCC middle lobe R.
Positive pleural plaque on frozen section.
Local involvement: P A, sup PV and pericardium.

Four specimens are received:


 1: R PLEURA FROZEN SECTION

Macroscopy:
Specimen consists of a strip of pleura measuring 35 x 30 x 3 mm and bearing a central plaque
measuring 23 x 8 rum. RS taken for frozen section.

 Frozen Section Diagnosis:
 Plaque-like area in pleura containing metastatic non small cell carcinoma.

 Phoned to Anaesthetist by Dr

 [Frozen section remnant, lA; remainder of tissue BIT, lB].

 Microscopy:
 Paraffin sections confirm the frozen section diagnosis of involvement of the pleura by nOll-
 small cell carcinoma. There is an infiltrative component in addition to tumour on the pleural
 surface.


 2: RMIDDLELOBE

 Macroscopy:
 Specimen consists of a middle lobectomy specimen measuring 125 x 100 x 22 mm in the
 inflated state. On the anterolateral pleural surface there is a grey depressed puckered area
 measuring 12 x 4 mm. Sectioning the lung tissue reveals a pale mass located immediately
 adjacent to the pleura. This measures 25 rnm in maximal dimension. It shows central necrosis.
 It is located more than 35 mID from the bronchial resection margin. [Bronchial resection
 margin, 2A; tumour with pleura, 2B-2D; peribronchial lymph nodes and tissue deep to
 bronchial resection margin, 2E; macroscopically normal lung tissue, 2F].

 Microscopy:
 Sections show a moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma in which there is invasion
 of the visceral pleura as well as vascular, lymphatic and perineural invasion. The tumour
 extends proximally along the bronchovascular structures to involve the bronchial resection
 margin. Peribronchial lymph nodes, including those at the margin, show extensive
 replacement by metastatic carcinoma. The adjacent lung tissue shows mild emphysema.


 3: RPLEURALNODULE

 Macroscopy:
 Specimen consists of a single rounded dark red piece of tissue measuring 6 x 6 x 2 rum.
 [Bisected and BIT].

 J'vticroscopy:
 Sections show vascular fibrous connective tissue containing metastatic adenocarcinoma.


 4: SUMP LYMPH NODE
Macroscopy:
Specimen consists of. single bl.ckpiece of tissue measuring 7 x 4 x 2 mm. [BIT,4A]. [

Microscopy:
The lymph node shows no evidence of malignancy.

Summary: Right middle lobe:
1: Moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma; 25 mm maximal dimension.
2: Pleural invasion and separate parietal pleura deposit.
3: Vascular, lymphatic and perineural invasion.
4: Present at bronchial resection margin.
5: Peribronchial lymph node metastases.
6: Pathological stage T4N1MX.


T-28000 M-8l403 Pl-03000