HISTORY
Pneumonectomy.
Left pneumonectomy. Left lung cancer. Left lower lobe crossing fissure into lingula.

MACROSCOPIC
Four specimens received.
The specimen is labelled "left lung" and comprises a left lung, 240 x 170 x 40 mm in the fresh state. A
30 mm length of bronchus protrudes from the hilum. There is an area of induration and puckering on
the lateral aspect of the pleura of the lower lobe. There is also an area of induration and puckering in
the interlobar fissure. A further area of induration is present posterolaterally on the upper lobe. A
number of emphysematous bullae are present at the apex and in the anterior margin of the upper lobe.
Serial parallel slicing through the lung parenchyma reveals a tumour mass approximately 65 mm in
greatest diameter abutting the pleura of the lateral aspect of the lower lobe. This tumour has a fleshy,
grey, somewhat mucoid, cut surface. Posteriorly it merges with adjacent lung parenchyma and its full
extent is difficult to appreciate macroscopically. At its upper aspect, in the region of previously noted
puckering in the interlobar fissure, tumour appears to cross into the upper lobe. There is extensive
greyish-white consolidation extending from this point anteriorly into the lingula. It is unclear whether
this represents tumour or infective consolidation. Beneath the area of puckering noted on the postero-
lateral aspect of the upper lobe, there is a separate area of parenchymal consolidation and possible
fibrosis. The remainder of the upper lobe parenchyma appears emphysematous. In the lower segments
of the lower lobe there is no evidence of emphysema and there is very little anthracosis. However, on
the medial aspect, towards the diaphragmatic surface of the lung, there is an area of plaque-like pleural
thickening approximately 10 mm in diameter and 2-3 mm in depth. [lA, bronchial resection margin
and peribronchial lymph nodes; 1B, peribronchial lymph nodes; lC-IE, tumour and overlying lateral
pleura; IF, tumour within interlobar fissure; 1G, lingular consolidation; IH, subpleural consolidation
 and fibrosis in posterolateral aspect of upper lobe; II, representative upper lobe parenchyma; lJ,
                      lesion from medial aspect oflower lobe].


2: The specimen is labelled "aortopulmonary window" and consists of three irregular reddish-brown
pieces of fatty tissue which measure in aggregate 10 x 10 x 2 mm. [BIT,2A].

3: The specimen is labelled "inferior pulmonary ligament" and consists of an ovoid-shaped piece of
greyish-black tissue, 12 x 7 x 5 mm, which has a smooth outer surface and is covered in a small
amount of fat. [Bisected and BIT, 3A].

4: The specimen is labelled "lymph node" and consists of two irregular nodular pieces of tissue which

   . . ....            ...
have a slate-grey appearance. The larger piece measures 18 x 5 x 4 mm and the smaller piece measures
                   .     rtion of tissue is BIT, 4A].


MICROSCOPIC
1: Sections show that the majority of the tumour comprises well-differentiated papillary
adenocarcinoma. Focally there is stromal invasion by moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with a
more usual acinar architecture. Tumour abuts but does not invade the lateral pleura. However, at its
superior aspect it does cross the interlobar fissure into the upper lobe (IF), and there is extensive
contiguous infiltration of the lingula (lG). The abnormal area in the posterolateral aspect of the upper
lobe (IH) is an entirely separate deposit of histologically identical papillary adenocarcinoma with
adjacent fibroelastotic scarring and emphysema. This presumably represents a metastasis, although a
synchronous primary tumour cannot be excluded. Definite vascular or lymphatic invasion is not
identified in any of the sections, and none of the peribronchial lymph nodes contains metastatic
adenocarcinoma. The plaque-like pleural lesion on the medial aspect of the lower lobe appears to
represent artefactual diathermy injury.

2-4: Sections of each of the separately submitted lymph nodes show no evidence of metastatic
adenocarcinoma.

SUMMARY
Left pneumonectomy:
/   PapIllary adenocarcinoma ofleft lower lobe, 65 mm in diameter, crossing interlobar fissure into left
    upper lobe.
    Separate focus of adenocarcinoma in left upper lobe.
    No vascular or lymphatic invasion found.
    No lymph node metastases.
    Pathological stage T2 NO ?Ml.




    T-28000 M-81403 PI-03000

    cc: