Final Surgical Pathology Report


Procedure:

Diagnosis

A. Lung, right upper lobe, resection:
 Adenocarcinoma, poorly differentiated, 3.5 cm in greatest dimension.
 Surgical margins uninvolved.
 No evidence metastasis in 5 lymph nodes, (0/5).
B. R4 lymph nodes, resection:
 No evidence of metastasis in 3 lymph nodes, (0/3).
C. Level VII lymph node, resection:
 No evidence of metastasis in one lymph node, (0/1).

Microscopic Description:
Microscopic examination performed.

A.

Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma
Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated
Primary tumor (pT): 3.5 cm, PT2
Margins of resection: Uninvolved
Direct extension of tumor: Not identified
Venous (large vessel) invasion: Not identified
Arterial (large vessel) invasion: Not identified
Lymphatic (small vessel) invasion: Not identified
Regional lymph nodes (pN): Negative in 5 nodes, pN0
Distant metastasis (pM): Not evaluated by this specimen, pNX
Other findings: None

B.   There is no evidence of metastasis in 3 lymph nodes.

C.   There is no evidence of metastasis in one lymph node.


Specimen
A. Right upper lobe
B. R4R lymph node
C. Level VII

Clinical Information
Lung mass


Gross Description
A. Received fresh labeled "right upper lobe" is a 211 g, 18.5 x 9.8 x
4.0 cm lobectomy specimen with an attached 1.2 cm in length, 1.6 x 1.3
cm in diameter bronchial stump. Several slightly rubbery gray-black
tissue using keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 1.0 cm in
greatest dimension are recovered from the hilum. The pleura is purple
with focal retraction along the posterior lateral aspect, subsequently
inked black. On sectioning, there is a subjacent, moderately well
circumscribed, 3.5 x 2.9 x 2.8 cm tan-white to grey black tumor mass.
The tumor extends to within less than 0.1 cm of the inked pleural
surface. A portion of tumor and a portion of normal parenchyma are
submitted for tissue procurement as requested. The remaining parenchyma
is a uniform tan red without additional mass lesion or abnormality. RS
9.
Summary: 1-bronchial stump margin; 2-vascular margins; 3 through 5-
tumor to inked pleural surface; 6-tumor to normal; 7 and 8-random
normal; 9-4 whole lymph nodes.


B. Received fresh labeled "R4 lymph node" it C2 0.3 x 2.2 x 0.4 cm
aggregate of fragmented soft gray-black to tan gold tissue which is
entirely submitted in one block.

C. Received fresh labeled "level VII" is a 0.8 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm fragment
of soft gray-black-red tissue which is submitted in toto in one block.