HISTORY
Left lobe lobectomy upper.

MACROSCOPIC
Two specimens submitted.

1: The specimen is labelled "left upper lobe" and consists of a left upper lobe of lung measuring 220 x
90 x 17 mm. A large area of parietal pleural adhesion is noted on the anterolateral surface. Beneath
this a firm mass is palpable within the anterior segment. On sectioning a mass is confirmed within the
lung. The mass measures 40 x 17 x 32 mm and has a cream to tan cut surface with black streaking.
The tumour lies adjacent to the area of thickened and adherent pleura. The tumour is over 25 mm away
from the medial pleural surface and is well clear of the posterior pleural surface. The tumour is at least
40 mm away from the bronchial resection margin. The uninvolved lung tissue appears unremarkable.
[lA, bronchial resection margin; IB, peribronchial lymph nodes; 1C, tumour with adherent lateral
pleura; ID, adjacent medial pleural margin; IE-IF, further sections through tumour; IG, uninvolved
lung].

2: The specimen is labelled "lymph node No.5" and consists of a single fragment of cream fatty tissue
containing grey-black lymph nodes. The specimen measures 25 x 18 x 7 mm. No obvious
                        is noted on sectioning. [Bisected and BIT, 2A-B].


MICROSCOPIC
1: Sections show a moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma which invades into the
overlying adherent parietal pleura but appears clear of the soft tissue resection margin. Definite
vascular or lymphatic invasion is not identified. Metastatic adenocarcinoma is present in one of the
peribronchial lymph nodes with transcapsular extension into adjacent hilar fibrofatty tissue and
perineural and intraneural invasion in this region. The bronchial resection margin is clear of
malignancy but shows several foci of squamous metaplasia and low-grade dysplasia. Distant lung
parenchyma shows focal organising pneumonia, congestion and emphysema.

2: Sections show partial replacement of the lymph nodes by metastatic carcinoma with transcapsular
extension into the adjacent fibrofatty tissue.

SUMMARY
Left upper lobectomy and lymph node No 5:
Moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma, 40 mm in diameter.
Invasion of parietal pleura present.
No vascular invasion identified.
Metastatic adenocarcinoma present in peribronchial and No 5 lymph nodes.
Perineural and intraneural invasion present in hilar soft tissue.
Pathological stage T3 N2.




T-28000 M-81403 PI-03000

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT
Elastic stains demonstrate unequivocal vascular invasion by tumour.