DEPARTMENT OF PATHOLOGY AND LABORATORY MEDICINE




Date Coll:



             SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

SPECIMEN

  A. Right upper lobe

  B. Level 10 lymph node

  C. Level 3 lymph node

  D. Level 4 lymph node

  E. Level 7 lymph node



FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS

  FSC) Level 3 lymph node - Negative for malignancy.

  FSD) Level 4 lymph node - Negative for malignancy.

  FSE) Level 7 lymph node - Negative for malignancy.
GROSS DESCRIPTION

      A. Submitted fresh labelled "right upper lobe." It

      consists of a lobe of lung tissue submitted for tissue

 procurement. Lobe has a large perihilar lymph node present which

 appears to have encased the bronchus at the point of resection.

 This node, on cut section is 2.5 cm in greatest extent and has a

 mottled tan and black cut surface. There is an area of pleural

 thickening and puckering on the apical portion of the lobectomy.

 Serial sections taken through the lung reveal a large discrete

 circumscribed tumor in the apex measuring 2.3 x 1.9 x 1.5 cm. It

 too has a granular tan and black cut surface appearance and is

 sharply demarcated from the surrounding lung. It approaches the

 visceral pleural surface but does not appear to involve it.

 Adjacent to tumor there is an area of discoloration and thickening

 of the lung parenchyma as well as some apparent emphysematous

 changes in the more distal parenchyma. Portion of tumor and normal

 tissue submitted for tissue procurement per request of the surgeon.



 BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - bronchial margin; 2 - positive hilar lymph node

 with encased bronchus; 3- hilar node; 4 - positive hilar lymph node

 and second lymph node; 5-8 - tumor; 9 - additional lung section.
      B. Submitted 10% formalin labelled "level 10 lymph node" is

      a 1.5 cm aggregate of anthracotic soft tissue.

      C. Submitted fresh for frozen labelled "level 3 lymph node"

      is a 1 cm nodule of anthracotic lymph node tissue submitted

 entirely for frozen section.

      D. Submitted fresh for frozen labelled "level 4 lymph node"

      is a 1.7 cm aggregate of soft anthracotic tissue submitted

 entirely for frozen section.

      E. Submitted fresh for frozen section labelled "level 7

      lymph node" is a 2.5 cm aggregate of anthracotic soft

 tissue submitted entirely for frozen section.




MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

      Microscopic sections of the lung carcinoma reveals a poorly

 differentiated non-small cell carcinoma. The tumor is growing in

 discrete nodules and packets filling the air spaces with somewhat

 columnar cells with a peripheral picket-fence-like pattern of

 growth. Individual cells are hyperchromatic with frequent mitotic

 activity. The tumor is negative for mucicarmine. It does show

 strong positivity for TTF-1 and CEA and is negative for P63. This
indicates that it is a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma.

  Results of the resection are summarized in the following template.



  Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.

  Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated.

  Primary tumor (pT): Tumor is 2.3 cm in size and not involve the

  visceral pleural surface (pT1b).

  Margins of resection: Negative.

  Direct extension of tumor: Absent.

  Venous (large vessel) invasion: Present.

  Arterial (large vessel) invasion: Negative.

  Lymphatic (small vessel) invasion: Small vessel invasion present.

  Regional lymph nodes (pN): 1 of 2 hilar lymph nodes contains

  metastatic carcinoma. All sampled mediastinal lymph nodes are

                  negative for tumor (pN1).

  Distant metastasis (pM): pMX.

  Other findings: Focal infarction distal to the tumor.

  Emphysematous changes.
DIAGNOSIS

 A. Lung, right upper lobectomy:

    Invasive poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma.

    Tumor is confined to the lung and does not involve the visceral

    pleural surface.

    One of two peribronchial lymph nodes is positive for metastatic

    carcinoma (1/2).

    Large venous vessel and lymphatic vessel invasion by tumor is

    present. Emphysematous changes.

    Focal distal infarction.

 B. Lymph node, level 10, resection:

    Negative for malignancy.

 C. Lymph node, level 3, resection:

    Negative for malignancy.

 D. Lymph node, level 4, resection:

    Negative for malignancy.

 E. Level 7, resection:

    Negative for malignancy.



 -----------------------------

                                 (Electronic Signature)

               --- End Of Report ---