Patient Name MRF | —_ .

Received a f=

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY ~~ CASE: ee

Diagnosis
Lymph node, #5, excision:
- One lymph node negative for malignancy (0/1).

Lymph node, #6, excision:
- One lymph node negative for malignancy (0/1).

Lymph node, #/, excision:
- Two lymph nodes negative for malignancy (0/2).

Lymph node, #9, excision:
- One lymph node negative for malignancy (0/1).

Lymph node, #8, excision:
- One lymph node negative for malignancy (0/1),

Lymph node, #10, excision:
- Fragments of lymph node negative for malignancy.

Lymph node, #12, excision:
- Fragments of lymph node negative for malignancy.

Bronchial margin, excision:
- Negative for malignancy.

Lymph node, #11, excision:
- Fragments of lymph node negative for malignancy.

Lung, left upper lobe, lobectomy:
- Adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated (2 cm); margin of resection is negative for
malignancy; pleural surface Is not involved. |
- Two lymph nodes negative for malignancy (0/2).
- Pathologic stage: pT 1a/N0O/Mx.

EEE (Electronically signed by) (erie: i _

Clinical Information: The patient is a MB car old female with lung cancer.

Frozen Section Diagnosis
HFS1: Bronchial margin, biopsy:
- Negative for malignancy.

JFS1: Lung, left upper lobe, lobectomy
- Non-small cell carcinoma.

Gross Description

Ten specimens are received in separate containers labeled with the patient's name and medical
record number. The first specimen is also labeled "#5 lymph node". Received is a single irregularly
shaped fragment of tan-yellow and black tissue measuring 1.0 x 0.9 x 0.5 cm in maximum gross
dimension. The specimen ts entirely submitted In cassette A1. The second specimen is also labeled "#6
lymph node". Received are two irregularly shaped fragments of tan-yellow and black tissue measuring
1.3 x 0.9 x 0.6 cm together. The specimen ts entirely submitted in cassette B1. The third specimen Is
also labeled "#7 lymph node". Received is a single irregularly shaped fragment of tan-pink and black
tissue measuring 1.4 x 1.0 x 0.4 cm in maximum gross dimension. The specimen is entirely submitted in
cassette C1. The fourth specimen is also labeled "#9 lymph node”. Received are two irregularly shaped
fragments of yellow-tan tissue measuring 1.0 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm together. The specimen is entirely submitted
in cassette D1. The fifth specimen Is also labeled "#8 lymph node". Received is a single irregularly
shaped fragment of tan-brown and black tissue measuring 0.8 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm in maximum gross
dimension. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette E1. The sixth specimen is also labeled "#10
lymph node’. Received are two irregularly shaped fragments of tan-purple and black tissue measuring
1./xX 1.1 x 0.6 cm together. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette F1. The seventh specimen is
also labeled "#12 lymph node". Received is a single irregularly shaped fragment of tan-purple and black
tissue measuring 1.5 xX 0.7 x 0.6 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette G1.
The eighth specimen was originally received fresh for frozen section is now resubmitted for permanent
section. It is also labeled "bronchial margin". Received at the time of frozen section was a 1.0 x 0.4 x
0.2 cm fragment of tan-red tissue. The specimen was entirely submitted at the time of frozen and is
entirely resubmitted for permanent section. The ninth specimen is also labeled "#11 lymph node”.
Received is a single irregularly shaped fragment of tan and black tissue measuring 1.2 x 0.8 x 0.6 cm in
maximum gross dimension. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette 11. The tenth specimen was
originally received fresh for frozen section and is now resubmitted for permanent section. It is also
labeled "left upper lobe". Received is a lobectomy which measures 14.5 x 9.3 x 3.38 cm in maximum
gross dimension. The pleural surface is purple, pink-tan and mottled. There is multifocal anthracotic
pigment. At time of frozen section a 2.0 x 2.0 x 0.6 cm previously incised tan mass was identified. The
mass appears to grossly abut the pleural surface. The mass Is located approximately 2.5 cm to the
nearest surgical stapled margin. The remainder of the specimen is serially sectioned to reveal a maroon-
red parenchyma with anthracosis. No other mass lesions are noted. Representative sections are

submitted. lll

Block Summary

A1- #5 lymph node, entirely submitted.
B1- #6 lymph node, entirely submitted.
C1- #/ lymph node, entirely submitted.
D1- #9 lymph node, entirely submitted.
E1- #8 lymph node, entirely submitted.

F 1- #10 lymph node, entirely submitted.
G1- #12 lymph node, entirely submitted.
H1 Bronchial margin, entirely submitted.
|1- ' #11 lymph node, entirely submitted.
J1- Tumor, frozen section.

J2- Tumor in relation to pleural surface.
J3- Radial section at nearest surgical stapled margin.
J4- Vascular margin.

J5-J6- Additional sections of tumor.

J/- Uninvolved lung parenchyma.

J8- Possible lymph node.

Microscopic Description

i)
SP Synoptic Report

J: Thorax Lung SPECIMEN:
Lobe(s) of lung: Left upper
PROCEDURE: Lobectomy
SPECIMEN INTEGRITY
SPECIMEN LATERALITY: Left
TUMOR SITE: Upper lobe

TUMOR SIZE: Greatest dimension: 2.0 cm

TUMOR FOCALITY: Unifocal
HISTOLOGIC TYPE:

Adenocarcinoma

HISTOLOGIC GRADE: G2: Moderately differentiated

VISCERAL PLEURA INVASION:
BRONCHIAL MARGIN: — Uninvo
VASCULAR MARGIN:
LYMPH NODES

PRIMARY TUMOR (pT):

not in the main bronchus); or
REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN):
DISTANT METASTASIS (pM):

Not identified
lved by invasive carcinoma

Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis
Not applicable

pT1a: Tumor 2 cm or less in greatest dimension, surrounded by lung or
visceral pleura, without bronchoscopic evidence of invasion more proximal than the lobar bronchus (ie,

=
