TCGA- 38-4626


  ·agnosis:
  . Lung, left upper lobe, lobectomy.
- Adenocarcinoma, poorly differentiated, 5.3 em diameter, bronchial and pleural margins not involved.
- Lymph nodes, peribronchial - No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/8).

B: Lymph nodes, station 5, removal.
- No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/2).

C: Lymph nodes, 110, removal.
- No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/2) .

D: Lymph nodes, station 11, removal.
- No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/2) .

Corruuent:
None.

Intraoperative Consultation: Frozen section is requested by Dr.

FSAl: Lung, left upper lobe, lobectomy, bronchial margin, biopsy
- No tumor seen in bronchial margin
- Two lymph nodes, no tumor seen {0/2)


Clinical History:
with adenocarcinoma of the left upper lobe of the lung.


Gross Description:
Received are four appropriately containers.

Container A:
Specimen fixation: formalin

 ·,pe of specimen/parts of lung received: left upper lobe lobectomy

Size of specimen: 17.5 x 11.0 x 5.8 em

~Veight   of specimen: 340 g

Other attached structures: none

Tumor location: left upper lobe superior segment

Tumor size: 5.3 x 5.0 x 5.0 em. Sectioning of the tumor reveals a firm, tan, slightly whorled, solid
mass with pushing of regular borders which is somewhat circumscribed. The specimen almost has a cauliflower
appearance.

Relationship of tumor to bronchus: Tumor does not grossly appear to be involving the bronchus.

Distance of tumor to bronchial margin: 1.1 em

Relationship/distance of tumor to pleura: closest distance is 0.4 em

Distance of tumor to other surgical margins: 1.1 em from bronchial margin; tumor is 1.4 em away from stapled
surgical margin

Presence/absence of satellite tumor nodules: absent

Involvement of attached structures by tumor: no attached structures present

Description of nontumorous lung: remaining lung is red/tan and diffusely aerated. 'rhere are focal areas which
appear consolidated.

Tissue submitted for special studies: yes, next section of bronchial margin, a representative section of tumor
and representative section of normal lung parenchyma


 1.ock Surrunary:
 JAl - bronchial margin
Al - stapled surgical margin
A2 - representative section of tumor at pleura
A3 - representative section of tumor at pleura
A4 - representative section of tumor and adjacent uninvolved lung
AS - representative section of tumor
A6 - representative section of uninvolved lung, inferior segment
A7 ~ two lymph node candidates
AS - one lymph node candidate
A9 - representative section of tumor to distance of bronchus


Container B is additionally labeled "station 5". Within the container are two fragments of soft tissue which
measure 1.5 x l.S x 0.4 em in aggregate. The specimens are tan/brown and consistent with lymph nodes.

Bl - one lymph node candidate, bisected
B2 - one lymph node candidate, bisected,


Container c is additionally labeled "IJ10". Within the container is a 1. 5 x 0. 5 x 0. 4 em, single, tan, irregular
soft tissue fragment consistent with lymph node.

C1 - one lymph node candidate, bisected,

Container D is additionally labeled "station 11", t'li thin the container is a 0. 5 x 0. 5 x 0. 3 em, red/tan tissue
fragment consistent with lymph node. The specimen is bisected in Dl,       .

Light Bicroscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr.

The frozen section diagnosis is confirmed.

Tumor histologic type (WHO classification}: adenocarcinoma

Tumor histologic grade (WHO classification) : poorly differentiated

Tumor size (greatest dimension): 5.3 em

Histologic assessment of surgical margins: not involved

Pleural involvement: not identified

In situ carcinoma: not identified

 ·1vasion:
 .lgiolymphatic - not identified
perineural - not identified

Lymph nodes (by node group): 0/8 peribronchial 0/2 station 5 0/1 L10 0/1 station 11

Extracapsular extension of tumor in lymph nodes: n/a

Findings in nontumorous lung: hemosiderin-laden macrophages and post-obstructive
changes