SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

De-ldentified Specimen Code: ll
Patient Age/Sex S| F

SPECIMEN SUBMITTED:

Part A: RIGHT SUPERIOR SEGMENT
Part B: R11 SUMP

Part C: R7

Part D: R11 NODE

Final Diagnosis

1, Right lung, superior segment, segmentectomy (A) - Adenocarcinoma, micropapillary
predominant (WHO mixed adenocarcinoma, with micropapillary, acinar and bronchioloalveolar cell
carcinoma components), see comment.

- Centrilobular emphysema.

2. Lymph nodes, R11 SUMP, excision (B) - Metastatic adenocarcinoma.

3. Lymph nodes, R7, R11, excision (C) - Lymph nodes; negative for neoplasm.

Diagnosis Comment:

Tumor Location: right lower lobe, supefior segment
Tumor Size: 2x 2x i cm

Vascular Invasion: not identified

Lymphatic Invasion: present

Bronchial Margin: negative

Vascular Margin: negative

Parenchymal Margins: negative

Pleura/Soft Tissue Margin: negative

Pathologic Stage (AJCC): p stage I!A (T1a N1 MX)

Additional comments: the adenocarcinoma is composed of micropapillary (65%), acinar (30%) and lepidic
patterns (5%).

Page 1 of 2
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Intraoperative Diagnosis:
1. Adenocarcinoma. Bronchial margin is negative for tumor

Clinical Diagnosis:
LUNG CA

Gross Description:

A. Received fresh for frozen section consultation is a specimen labeled "right superior segment" that
consists of a wedge shaped piece of lung parenchyma weighing 58 grams and measuring 8.5 x 4.5 x
2.5 cm with a bronchial stump of 0.3 cm in length and 0.5 cm in diameter. A tan-gray solid nodule with
stellate borders measuring 2 x 2 x 1 cm is present within the lung parenchyma, adjacent and retracting
the overlying pleura and extending within 1.5 cm of the bronchial and 1.7 cm from the nearest
parenchymal margin. The remaining lung parenchyma appears red and soft. No peribronchial lymph
nodes are present. Representative sections are submitted as follows: A1 bronchial shave margin
frozen, A2 - A8 nodule (A2 for frozen section evaluation, A3 with pleura, with parenchymal margin), A9
of unremarkable parenchyma distal to mass, A10 vascular margin.

B. Received fresh on Telfa gauze labeled "R11 stump” is an irregular-shaped segment of red-gray soft
tissue measuring 1.3 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is totally submitted in formalin in one cassette.

C. Received fresh on Telfa gauze labeled "R7" is an irregular-shaped segment of red-gray soft tissue
measuring 0.8 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is totally submitted in formalin in one cassette.

D. Received fresh on Telfa gauze labeled "R11 node" is an irregular-shaped segment of red-gray soft
tissue measuring 0.4 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is totally submitted in formalin in one cassette.

Microscopic:
{Not Entered}

Page 2 of 2
