LEFT LOWER. LOBE

Clinical Notes:
LL lobectomy.
Bronchoalveolar carcinoma on FNA.

Two specimens received.

J; LEFT LOWER LOBE

Macroscopy:

Specimen consists of a left lower lobectomy which measures 130 x 65 x 90 mm. The pleura overlying
the anterior basal segment is puckered and shows a small amount of adherent pale tissue. On
sectioning the lung in this area, there is diffuse infiltration by pale and tan tumour which has a rubbery
cut surface. The tumour appears to abut the lateral and diaphragmatic pleural surfaces. The lesion
measures approximately 50 x 60x 45 mm. The tumour also involves the posterior lateral basal and
anterior basal segments. Tumour appears to surround a major segmental bronchus and extends close
to the bronchial resection margin. The tumour does not appear to involve the medial margin.
[Tumour and diaphragmatic pleura, A; tumour and medial pleural surface, B; tumour and lateral
pleural surface, C-D; bronchial resection margin, E; tumour and bronchus immediately adjacent to
bronchial resection margin, F; hilar nodes, G; non-neoplastic lung, H_]

Microscopy:

Sections show a well-differentiated adenocarcinoma with a prominent mucinous bronchiolo-alveolar
carcinoma component. Focally the tumour appears to be invasive. It closely abuts the pleural surface.
Overlying this there is a thick organising fibrinous pleurisy. Although definite invasion of the pleura is
not seen, there are suspicious features and special stains will be performed. No vascular or perineural
invasion is seen. Small satellite deposits of tumour are scattered throughout the adjacent parenchyma.
These are also identified in the parenchyma of the section taken of the bronchus immediately adjacent
to the bronchial resection margin (Block F). Both the bronchial resection margin and the bronchus
within the immediately adjacent section show no evidence of malignancy. No metastases to hilar
lymph nodes are seen. The lung tissue away from the mass in block H shows no specific abnormality.

2; HILAR LYMPH NODE

Macroscopy:
Specimen consists of a single piece of grey firm tissue which measures 12x 5x 5 on

Microscopy:
Sections of the lymph node show carbon deposition and sinus histiocytosis but no evidence of
metastatic malignancy.

Summary:

Left lower lobe and hilar lymph node:

I. Invasive well-differentiated adenocarcinoma with a predominant bronchiolo-alveolar carcinoma
(mucinous type) pattern.

Pleura probably not involved by carcinoma but confirmatory stains are being performed.

No vascular or perineural invasion or lymph node metastases are seen.

Bronchial resection margin free of tumour.

T2NOMx.

i KR Ww NS

3: BACK LIPOMA

Macroscopy:
Specimen consists of an irregularly shaped lobulated and slightly fragmented piece of fatty tissue
measuring 95 x 70x 25 mm. The external surface is smooth and yellow. The cut surface has a
Cneous }\ OW appearance. INO areas OJ nademorrnage or necrosis are identijlea.

\
2 ) Spee 4 ee alia n
Sections show lobulated mature adipose tissue. There is no evidence of malignanc
7924 194 779719
J
Roel Ty a faagt a Area CH o u
DAaACK i € teatiures are CONnSIStel ¥¥ a i pu ila

P-01100 T-28000 M-81403 M-82503
P-01140 T-08000 M-09450
P-01100 T-1X000 M-88500

ADDENDUM REPORT

No pl eural invasion is seen with special stains.

