n


Date Coll:

                        SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT



SPECIMEN
    A. R4 lymph node
    B. L4 lymph node
    C. Level 10 lymph node
    D. Level 5 lymph node
    E. Subcarinal lymph node
    F. Level 6 lymph node
    G. Left lung

CLINICAL NOTES
    PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS:   Lung cancer.

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
    FSA) R4 lymph node - Negative for malignancy.
    FSB) L4 lymph node - Negative for malignancy.

GROSS DESCRIPTION
             A. Part A is submitted fresh for frozen labeled "R4 lymph
             node" consists of multiple fragments of tan-white and
    yellow tissue admixed with anthracotic pigment. The aggregate
    measurement is 4 x 2 x 0.5 cm. Submitted entirely for frozen
    section.
             B. Part B is submitted fresh for frozen labeled "L4 lymph
             node" consists of multiple fragments of gray-red and yellow
    tissue with an aggregate dime       f 2 x 2 x 0.5 cm. Submitted
    entirely for frozen section.
             C. Received fresh,          "level 10 lymph node", are two
             slightly rubbery gray-black-red tissues, in keeping with
    lymph nodes, measuring 0.35 cm. in greatest dimension and 0.7 x 0.5
    x 0.5 cm. The larger tissue is bisected and the specimens are
    entirely submitted in two blocks, as labeled. AS-2

   BLOCK SUMMARY:   1 - Smaller node in toto; 2 - bisected larger node.

            D. Received fresh, labeled "level 5 lymph node", are two
            slightly rubbery gray-black-red tissues, in keeping with
   lymph nodes, averaging 1.1 x 0.6 x 0.6 cm. The specimens are
   bisected and entirely submitted independently in two blocks (one
   bisected node per cassette). AS-2
            E. Received fresh, labeled "subcarinal lymph node", are
            four slightly rubbery tan-gray-red tissues, in keeping with
   lymph nodes, measuring up to 0.6 cm. in greatest dimension. The
   specimens are submitted in toto in one block. AS-1
            F. Received fresh, labeled "level 6 lymph node", are two
            soft tan-red to gray-black tissues, in keeping with lymph
   nodes, measuring 0.5 and 2.4 cm. in greatest dimension, with a scant
   amount of associated adipose tissue. The larger node is bisected
   and the specimens are entirely submitted in two blocks, as labeled.
   AS-2

              RY:   1 - Smaller node in toto; 2 - bisected larger node.
            G. Left lung submitted fresh for tissue procurement
            labelled "left lung" is an intact lung with two lobes
   weighing 442 grams. There is a suture line present at the
   amputation point of the main left bronchus, the left main pulmonary
   artery and main left pulmonary vein. The pleural surface of the
   lung is intact with a finely stippled anthracotic pigment present.
   No obvious areas of puckering of the pleura or umbilication are
   evident. Several small possible peribronchial lymph nodes are
   present adjacent to the bronchial stump. There is a mass that is
   palpable in the interlobar fissure. This appears to be below the
   surface of the lung. Sections are placed through the mass and this
   reveals a large tumor mass which is immediately inferior to the main
   bronchus. The tumor mass measures maximally 6 x 5 x 4 cm. It
   arises approximately 1 cm below the bronchial cuff margin that
   grossly does not appear to be involved by tumor. There does appear
   to be at least one lymph node which is partially involved by tumor
   adjacent the bronchus. Portions of the t           ormal lung are
   submitted for procurement per request of              Further
   sectioning of the lung reveals a second t          present deep to
   the pleural surface of the lower lobe. This pleural mass as central
   necrosis and measures maximally 3 x 2 x 1.5 cm. It has the same
   fleshy tan-white gritty cut surface as does the main tumor mass.
   The upper lobe does not appear to have any discrete nodules. It is
   crepitant gray-tan tissue without focal nodularity. Sections after
   fixation.
   BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - bronchial margin; 2 - vascular margin; 3 -
   pleural margin of the main dominant tumor mass; 4-7 - dominant tumor
   mass; 8-10 - secondary smaller tumor including pleural surface; 11 -
   random left upper lobe; 12 - random left lower lobe; 13-14 -
   bronchial lymph nodes.



MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
             Microscopic sections of both lesions present in the left
             lung have a similar histologic appearance. Both are
    moderate to poorly differentiated adenocarcinomas with cells
    exhibiting prominent eosinophilic cytoplasm. It is not clear from
    the histology if this represents two separate primary tumors or an
    intrapulmonary metastasis from the main lung tumor. Results of the
    evaluation of the lung are summarized in the following template:

   Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.
   Histologic grade: Moderate to poorly differentiated.
   Primary tumor (pT): Two lesions are present. The larger lesion
   measures 6 x 5 x 4 cm., the smaller lesion 3 x 2 x 1.5 cm. (pT2).
   Margins of resection: Bronchial and vascular margins of resection
   are free of tumor. Visceral pleural surface free of tumor.
   Direct extension of tumor: Absent.
   Venous (large vessel) invasion: Negative.
   Arterial (large vessel) invasion: Negative.
   Lymphatic (small vessel) invasion: Negative.
   Regional lymph nodes (pN): Two of six bronchial lymph nodes contain
   metastatic adenocarcinoma (2/6). All mediastinal lymph nodes are
      negative (pN1).
   Distant metastasis (pM): Cannot be assessed (pMX).

   5, 3x6, 14x2
DIAGNOSIS
    A. Lymph node, R4, resection:
          Negative for malignancy.

   B.   Lymph node, L4, resection:
          Negative for malignancy.

   C.   Lymph node, level 10, resection:
          Negative for malignancy.

   D.   Lymph node, level 5, resection:
          Negative for malignancy.

   E.   Lymph node, subcarinal, resection:
          Negative for malignancy.

   F.   Lymph node, level 6, resection:
          Negative for malignancy.

   G.   Lung, left pneumonectomy:
          Multicentric, moderate to poorly differentiated
          adenocarcinoma. Bronchial, vascular and visceral pleural
          surfaces are free of involvement by tumor.
          Two of six peribronchial lymph nodes contain metastatic
          adenocarcinoma (2/6).




                       --- End Of Report ---