SPECIMEN
    A. Right lower lobe tissue procurement
    B. Completion right pneumonectomy
    C. Level 7 lymph node
    D. 4R lymph node
    E. Mediastinal cyst
    F. 2R lymph node
    G. Superior vein stump

CLINICAL NOTES
    PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Lung cancer.
    POST-OP DIAGNOSIS: Lung cancer.

GROSS DESCRIPTION
             A. Received fresh labeled "right lower lobe" is a 363-
gram,
             19 x 11 x 5.5 cm lobectomy specimen with attached 1 cm in
    length, 1.8 x 1.4 cm in diameter bronchial stump. The pleura is
    smooth glistening tan-pink and focally retracted with a subjacent
    palpable mass lesion. On sectioning, there is a well-
circumscribed,
    6.8 x 6.5 x 5 cm focally cystic tan-white lesion, which focally
    approaches the inked pleural surface within less than 0.1 cm. A
    portion of tumor and a portion of normal tissue are submitted for
    tissue procurement, as requested. In addition, the tumor extends
to
    within 2 cm of the bronchial stump margin. The remaining
parenchyma
    is spongiform, red-purple, with a 4-cm ill-defined, focus of
    consolidation inferior to the tumor (see block 10). No additional
    abnormality is noted. Three slight rubbery tan-gray-black tissue
in
    keeping with lymph nodes measuring up 1.3 cm in greatest dimension
    are recovered from the hilar region. Representative sections are
    submitted in 12 blocks as labeled. RS-12.

    BLOCK SUMMARY:   1 - Bronchial stump margin, 2 - vascular margin, 3-
5
    - tumor to inked pleural surface, 6 - tumor to bronchial stump, 7 -
    central tumor, 8 - tumor to normal, 9 - random normal, 10 - area of
1


GROSS DESCRIPTION
    consolid      , 11 - two whole lymph nodes, 12 - one trisected lymph
    node.

              B. Received fresh, labeled "completion right
              pneumonectomy" is a 223 gram, 13.5 x 10.5 x 6.0 cm.
     lobectomy specimen with attached 2.5 cm. in length, 2.8 x 1.8 cm.
in
    diameter bronchial stump. The pleura is wrinkled pink purple. On
    sectioning the parenchyma is spongiform red purple with scant
    diffuse anthracosis. No discrete mass lesion or abnormality is
    identified. Four slightly rubbery tan gray-black tissues in
keeping
    with lymph nodes measuring up to 1.8 cm. in greatest dimension are
    recovered from the hilum. Representative sections are submitted in
    7 blocks as labeled. RS7.

     BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Bronchial stump margin; 2 - vascular margin; 3-5
     - random parenchyma; 6 - three whole peri            nodes; 7 -
     trisected largest perihilar lymph node.

              C. Received fresh, labeled "level 7 lymph node" are four
              intact to slightly fragmented soft pale tan to tan red
     tissue in keeping with lymph nodes ranging from 0.7 cm. in greatest
     dimension up to 4.5 x 2.8 x 1.3 cm.(the largest possibly
     representing a nodule aggregate). The specimen is entirely
     submitted in five blocks as labeled. AS-5.

     BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Three whole tissues; 2-5 - section largest
     tissue.

             D. Received fresh, labeled "4R lymph nodes" are two soft
             tan white to tan red tissues measuring 0.7 and 1.3 cm. in
    greatest dimension which are submitted in toto. AS-1.
             E. Received fresh, labeled "mediastinal cyst" are four
             diffusely cauterized slightly rubbery white pink tissue
    fragments averaging 1.3 x 0.8 x 0.15 cm. The specimens are
bisected
    and entirely submitted in two blocks.
             F. Received fresh, labeled "2R lymph nodes" are two
             diffusely cauterized fragmented, soft golden yellow fatty
    portions of tissue measuring 1.3 and 1.8 cm. in greatest dimension.
    No definitive lymphoid tissues are recovered. The specimens are
    submitted in toto independently in two blocks.   AS-2.
             G. Received fresh, labeled "superior vein stump" is an
             irregular, 0.6 x 0.4 x 0.15 cm. fragment of rubbery white
    pink tissue with numerous silver metallic staples. The staples are
          d and the specimen is entirely submitted in one block. AS-1.
MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
    Histologic type: Non-small cell carcinoma.
    Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated.
    Primary tumor (pT): Tumor measures maximally 6.8 cm in size and is
    confined to the lung (pT2b).
    Margins of resection: Negative.
    Direct extension of tumor: Absent.
    Venous (large vessel) invasion: Positive.
    Arterial (large vessel) invasion: Negative.
    Lymphatic (small vessel) invasion: Positive.
    Regional lymph nodes (pN): Eight peribronchial and perihilar lymph
    nodes
      are negative for metastatic carcinoma. One of four level 7
      mediastinal
      nodes contains metastatic adenocarcinoma. 4R and 2R lymph nodes
      are
      negative for tumor (pN2).
    Distant metastasis (pM): Cannot be assessed (pMX).
    Other findings: Post-obstructive pneumonitis and pulmonary edema
    are
      present. Benign mediastinal cyst.

   5,4x2,3x3


DIAGNOSIS
    A,B. Lung, right pneumonectomy:
           Poorly differentiated non-small cell carcinoma involving
the
           right lower lobe.
           The bronchial and vascular margins of resection are free of
           tumor. The tumor does not extend beyond the visceral
           pleural surface. Lymphovascular space invasion and
           medium-sized venous invasion by tumor is present.
           Post-obstructive pneumonitis with pulmonary edema.
           Eight peribronchial and perihilar lymph nodes negative for
           metastatic carcinoma (0/8).
  C.     Lymph nodes, level 7, resection:
             One of four lymph nodes contains metastatic carcinoma (1/4).

    D.    Lymph node, 4R, resection:
            Single lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/1).

    E.    Mediastinum, resection of lesion:
            Benign fibrofatty tissue with a mesothelial-lined cyst.
            Negative for malignancy.

    F.    Lymph nodes, 2R, resection:
            Two lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/2).

    G.    Vein, superior vein stump, resection:

DIAGNOSIS
            No significant histopathologic findings.
            Negative for malignancy.



                                                       )


              --- End Of Report ---