TCGA-44-3919




SPECIMEN
    A.   Right   upper lobe of the lung
    B.   Level   10 lymph node
    C.   Right   lymph node
    D.   Right   lobe of lung
    E.   Level   7

CLINICAL NOTES
    PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS:     Lung lesion.

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
    AFS: Lung, right upper lobe, wedge biopsy - Adenocarcinoma.


GROSS DESCRIPTION
             A.   Received is a container labeled with the patient's
             name, medical record number and "wedge resection right
    upper lobe of the lung".    The specimen consists of a wedge-shaped
    fragment of tissue, measuring 6.5 x 4 x 3.5 em.    Green ink is
    applied to the pleural surface.    The specimen is sectioned and is
    found to contain a 2.5 em spongy tan nodule which extends to the
    stapled margin of resection.    A portion of the specimen is
submitted
    for tissue procurement. Additionally, frozen section is performed.
    All tissue minus the staple line is submitted in blocks AFS, Al,
    A2.
             B.   Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin,
labeled
             "level 10 lymph node" are multiple black-red irregular
    rubbery tissue fragments \'Ihich have an aggregate measurement of 2 x
    1 x 0.7 em.   Specimens are entirely submitted in one cassette.
    AS-1.
             C.   Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin,
labeled
             "R4 lymph node 11 is a 3.2 x 2.2 x 1.5 em pink-red irregular
    soft friable tissue fragment.    The specimen is friable.  Also
     received in the same container is a 1.2 em pink-black irregular
GROSS DESCRIPTION
    soft tissue fragment.   The specimen is entirely submitted as
    follows.  Blocks 1-3 - largest tissue fragment sectioned; block 4 -
    smaller tissue fragment.   AS-4.
             D.   Received fresh, subsequently fixed and inflated with
             formalin, labeled "right lobe of lung." The specimen
    consists of a 14 x 10.5 x 5 em lobe of lung.   The specimen shovlS
    multiple staple lines throughout. Possible black softened hilar
    lymph nodes are grossly identified. The specimen shows a
violaceous
       smooth glistening pleura. There are multiple staple lines present
       located near the hilum and antihilar. Staple antihilar is removed
       to show a 3.5 x 2 ern scabrous irregular focus.   This focus is inked
       blue and comes within 4 em from the hilum.    Cut surface of this
area
    shows possible tumor present measuring 1.2 x 0.6 x 0.3 em.  This
    grossly involves the staple line.  No other discrete gross lesions
    are identified throughout the remainder of the specimen which shows
    a red spongy cut surface.  Representative sections of the specimen
    are submitted as follows:  Block 1 - bronchial and vascular
margins;
       block 2 - possible hilar lymphoid tissue; block 3 - representative
       section of possible tumor at staple line (RS-5).
                E.   Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin,
labeled
                ''E. Level 7'' is a 1.7 x 1.2 x 0.6 em black-pink irregular
       soft friable tissue fragment.    The specimen is bisected and
entirely
       submitted in one cassette.    AS-1.




MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
             A.  The following template applies to the wedge resection
                of lung:
       Histologic type:    Adenocarcinoma
       Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated
       Primary tumor (pT) : 2. 5 em. (pTl)
MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
    Margins of resection:         Negative on the lobectomy specimen, specimen
      D.
      Venous (large vessel) invasion:   Not identified.
      Arterial {large vessel) invasion: Not identified.
      Lymphatic (small vessel) invasion: Not identified.
      Regional lymph nodes (pN):   Negative as described below (pNO)
      Distant metastasis (pM):   Could not be evaluated by the specimen.
      Other findings:  None.

                  B.    The level 10 lymph nodes demonstrate no evidence of
                  metastasis in six lymph nodes.

                  C. The R-4 lymph nodes demonstrate no evidence of
                  metastasis in 12 lymph nodes.

                  D.  The right lobe of the lung demonstrates residual
                  adenocarcinoma, 1.5 em. located at the staple line.  Due
to
      the orientation of the carcinoma adjacent to the staple line in the
      wedge resection, this likely represents one edge of the tumor and
      thus should not be added to the main tumor size.   The margins of
      resection are uninvolved.   There is no evidence of metastasis in
six
      lymph nodes.
               E.  There is no metastasis in three level 7 lymph nodes.

      3x3,    4x2, 14


DIAGNOSIS
      A.     Lung, right upper lobe, \'ledge resection:
               Adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated, 2.5 cm. 1 extending
               to the staple line.
      B.     Level 10 lymph nodes, resection:
               No evidence of metastasis in six lymph nodes (0/6).

DIAGNOSIS
      C.     Level R-4 lymph nodes, resection:
               No evidence of metastasis in tNelve lymph nodes (0/12).
      D.     Lung, right lobe, lobectomy:
               Adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated, 1.5 em. at staple
               line.
               No evidence of metastasis in 6 lymph nodes (0/6).
      E.     Level 7 lymph node, resection:
               No evidence of metastasis in three lymph nodes (0/3).