Page 1 of 4

Sex:M

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY

SURGERY CASE #:

yan
he
na

DATE OF SURGERY:

SURGEON:
SPECIMEN: A. Right lower lobe, lung wedge.
B. Level 10 R
Cc. Level 4R
D. Level 11R A
E. Right lower lobe - bronchial
margins.
F, Level 11R B
G. Level 11R C
H. Level 11R D
I. Level 7
FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: A. Carcinoma. Kj
EB. Bronchial surgical margins free of
tumor. =
OPBRATIVE PROCEDURE: Right VATS
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Right lung mass.
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Def

KAKKKKKKEEKKEDTAGNOSIGE & KKK RRR KKK

A-I.
1. Type of specimen:
Right lower lobe lobectomy with lymph node biopsies.
2. Tumor type:
Pulmonary adenocarcinoma,
3. Histologic grade:
Moderately to poorly differentiated.
4. Tumor size:
1.2 cm.
5. Surgical margins:
All surgical margins free of tumor.
6. Direct extension of tumor:
Tumor focally invades into, but not through, visceral pleura.
7. Lymphatic (small vessel) invasion:
Focus suggestive of lymphatic invasion identified.
8. Venous (large vessel) invasion:
Absent.
9. Lymph nodes:

Total number of lymph nodes examined: 7.
Number of lymph nodes involved: 0 (0/7).
10.

NOTE:

Page 2 of 4

TNM STAGING:
pT2, pNO, pMx

Current NCCN practice guidelines recommend determination of EGFR and
KRAS mutation status in adenocarcinoma of lung to help select
patients for Tyrosine-Kinase Inhibitor (TKT) therapy. Additionally,
recent data show that ALK (anaplastic lymphoma kinase) gene
rearrangements in adenocarcinoma of lung are associated with
resistance to TKIs. EGFR activating mutations have been shown to be
significantly associated with response to TKI and KRAS mutations are
associated with TKI resigtance. Mutation analysis for KRAS and EGFR
domain and ALK gene rearrangement by FISH is available as the lung
cancer mutation panel upon request. Testing may be performed on
paraffin-embedded tissue (block A3 ).

MICROSCOPIC EXAMINATION:

A.

Multiple sections are examined and sections of the mass grossly
described demonstrates a malignant epithelial neoplasm. The tumor
demonstrates nests and glandular differentiation of cells
demonstrating a moderate to abundant amount of cytoplasm with
enlarged, pleomorphic nuclei with irregular clumped chromatin pattern
and prominent nucleoli. There is mitotic activity seen. The tumor
is seen focally extending to, but not through, the visceral pleura
which is also examined with elastic stain. Immunohistochemistry
stains are also performed and the neoplastic cells are strongly
positive with cytokeratin 7, positive with cytokeratin 20, positive
with Napsin-A and show strong nuclear staining with TTF-1. There
is no venous (large vessel) invasion. A focus highly suggestive of
lymphatic invasion is noted. Sections of the grossly uninvolved lung
demonstrate no significant fibrosis or significant inflammation.

Sections demonstrate fragments of benign lymph node with mild
anthracosis. There is no malignancy.

Sections demonstrate fragments of benign lymph node with anthracotic
pigment. There is no malignancy.

Sections are of a benign lymph node with findings as described above.
There is no malignancy.

Multiple sections are examined and the bronchial margins are free of
tumor. The vascular margins are also unremarkable. Sections from
the previous wedge resection site demonstrate lung parenchyma with
hemorrhage. There is no residual tumor. Random sections of the
grossly unremarkable lung demonstrate no significant inflammation
with a few mildly thickened alveolar septae but no significant
interstitial fibrosis.

Sections are of a benign lymph node with sinus histiocytosis and
anthracotic pigment. There is no malignancy.

Sections are of a benign lymph node with findings as described above.
There is no malignancy.

Sections are of a benign lymph node with findings as described above.
There is no malignancy.
GROSS:

Page 3 of 4

Sections are of a benign_l h node with findings as described above.
There is no malignancy. an

Received fresh labeled with the patient's name, account number, and
"right lower lobe, lung wedge" is a wedge biopsy of lung measuring 10
x 3.5 x 3 cm in maximum dimensions. The pleural surface is
red-brown, anthracotic, and contains a retracted area. The pleural
surface is inked in black. Sectioning reveals a mass measuring 1.2
cm maximally with a gray-tan, mottled cut surface. Representative
sections of the mass are submitted for frozen section and following
permanent sections in a single cassette with touch preparations also
performed. A portion of the mass is submitted to Precision
Therapeutics for chemosensitivity studies. A separate report will be
issued. The remainder of the lung demonstrates a red-brown, soft and
spongy parenchyma with no additional masses identified. Additional
sections are submitted in blocks #2 through #4 for permanent. Blocks
#2 and #3, additional sections of mass. Block #4 - Grossly

uninvolved lung. RS-4

Received in Formalin labeled with the patient's name, account number,
and "Level 10 R" are two fragments of anthracotic lymph node
measuring 0.2 cm each. The specimen is totally submitted in a single

cassette. TS-1 J

Received in Formalin labeled with the patient's name, account number,
and "Level 4R" is a single fragment of yellow-tan adipose tissue
measuring 1 x 0.7 x 0.6 cm in maximum dimensions. A search is made
for potential lymph nodes and two are found measuring 0.4 and 0.6 cm.
The specimen is totally submitted in a single cassette. TS-1

Received in Formalin labeled with the patient's name, account number,
and "Level 11R A" is a single fragment of anthracotic lymph node
measuring 1.2 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm in maximum dimensions. The specimen is
totally submitted in a single cassette. TS~1 Qi

Received labeled “right lower lobe" is a 13.5 x 13 x 6 cm in maximum
dimensions thoracotomy specimen. The bronchial margin is submitted
for frozen and frozen section diagnosis in block #1. There is a
staple line consistent with the previous wedge resection site. The
specimen is serially sectioned and demonstrates parenchymal
hemorrhage at the previous resection site with no residual tumor
grossly seen. The remainder of the lung is soft and spongy with no
additional masses. Sections are submitted for permanent as follows:
Cassette #2 - Vascular margins. #3 and #4 - Sections from previous
wedge resection. #5 - Random sections of lung.

The specimen is received fresh in a single container, labeled with
the patient's name and number, and marked as "Level 11R B" is a
single fragment of anthracotic lymph node measuring 1.1 x 0.5 x 0.3
cm in maximum dimensions. The specimen is totally submitted in a

single cassette. TS-1 -

Received in Formalin labeled with the patient's name, account number,
and "Level 11R C" is a single fragment of anthracotic lymph node

measuring 0.4 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm in maximum dimensions. The specimen is
totally submitted in a single cassette. TS-1

Page 4 of 4

H, Received in Formalin labeled with the patient's name, account number,
and "Level 11R D" is a single fragment of anthracotic lymph node
measuring 0.4 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm in maximum dimensions. The specimen is
totally submitted in a single cassette. TS-1

I. Received in Formalin labeled with the patient's name, account number,
' and "Level 7” is a single fragment of anthracotic lymph node

measuring 1.2 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm in maximum dimensions. The specimen is
totally submitted in a single cassette. TS-1 (yy

Electronically Signed by

CC:

