FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis:

A. - G.) LUNG, RIGHT, LOWER LOBE, PERIBRONCHIAL (N11R X2), HILAR (N10R),
SUBCARINAL (N7R), AND LOWER PARATRACHEAL (N4R) LYMPH NODES,
WEDGE EXCISION WITH SUBSEQUENT LOBECTOMY AND REGIONAL LYMPR
NODE DISSECTION:

- POORLY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA, COMPATIBLE WITH LUNG
ORIGIN.
-1.5 cm in maximum dimension.
. Visceral pleura invasion: PRESENT.
- MARGIN STATUS: NEGATIVE.
_ NINE LYMPH NODES, NEGATIVE FOR METASTASIS (0/9).
_ INCIDENTAL SPINDLE CELL CARCINOID.
.0.5 cm in greatest dimension.
. SEE TUMOR STAGING SUMMARY BELOW.

PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING SUMMARY:
Type and grade: Adenocarcinoma, poorly differentiated.
Primary tumor: pT2a (1.5 cm In greatest dimension, invading the visceral pleura).
Regional lymph nodes: pNO (9 lymph nodes, negative for metastasis).
Distant metastasis: Not applicable.
Pathologic stage: IB.
Lymphovascular invasion: Not identified.
Margin status: RO.

Lung Tumor Staging Information

Data derived from current specimen. Staging In accordance with or modified from AJCC Cancer Staging
Handbook nn and CAP — ©

Procedure:
Specimen type:
Specimen laterality:
Specimen integrity:

TUMOR FEATURES:

Tumor site:
Tumor size:

Tumor focality:

Histologic type:

Histologic grade:

Lymphovascular invasion:

Perineural invasion:

Visceral pleura invasion:

Tumor extension into extrapulmonary structures:
Treatment effect:

LYMPH NODES:

MARGIN EVALUATION:
Distance to closest margin:

Bronchial margin:
Vascular margin:
Parenchymal margin:
Parietal pleural margin:
Chest wall margin:
Other margins:

PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING DESCRIPTORS:
Primary tumor:

Regional lymph nodes:
Distant metastasis:

Margin status:

Pathologic stage:

Additional pathologic findings:

Comment:

Lobectomy.
Lung, lower lobe.
Right.
intact.

Lung, lower lobe.

Greatest dimension: 1.5 cm.
Additional dimensions: 1.5x1cm

Unifocal.
Adenocarcinoma.

Poorly differentiated (G3).
Not identified.

Not identified.

Present.

Not identified.

Not applicable.

Nine lymph nodes, negative for metastasis.

Negative.

Unable to determine; tumor present in wedge excision,
however, no residual tumor present In subsequent

lobectomy.

Uninvolved by carcinoma.
Uninvolved by carcinoma.
Uninvolved by carcinoma.
Not applicable.

Not applicable.

Not applicable.

o1T2a (1.5 cm in greatest dimension, with invasion into
visceral pleura).

oNO (nine lymph nodes, negative for metastasis).
Not applicable.

RO.

IB.

incidental spindle cell carcinoid tumor (0.9 cm in

greatest dimension).
Emphysematous changes.

N/A

Source of Specimen:

A. Right lower lobe lung wedge excision

B. Lung;Right lower lobe for bronchial margins
C. Lymph node;N11k

D. Lymph node;N11R #2

E. Lymph node;N/R

F. Lymph node;N4R

G. Lymph node;N10R

Clinical History/Operative Dx:
Right lung nodule

Intraoperative Diagnosis:

A: Right lower lobe lung wedge excision: Non-small cell carcinoma, favor adenocarcinoma. (Dr.

B. FSB: Right lower lobe of lung lobectomy: Bronchial margin free of tumor. (UT.

Gross Description:

A. The specimen is labeled Right lower lobe wedge excision and is received without fixative. It consists of

a wedge excision of tan to purplisn lung tissue measuring /.9 X 34x1.8 cm. It has a fixed weight of 1/
grams. A metallic staple line is present along one edge. The pleural surface shows some anthracotic

stippling. Centrally there has been a previous incision made to reveal a subpleural gray-tan tumor Mass
which measures 1.5x1.5x 10cm. A representative sections of the tumor mass is submitted for frozen

section as FSA. Representative tumor Is obtained for research purposes. The tumor Is immediately
subpleural and is 0.4 cm trom the closest staple line. The tissue remaining from frozen section Is
submitted for permanent section in cassette A1. Sections of the tumor and closest approach to pleural
surface are submitted in cassette Az, A3-A4 is sections of tumor with closest approach to staple line (inked

green), A5) sections of uninvolved ung

B. The specimen is labeled right lower lobe and is received without fixative. It consists of a lobe of lung
which measures 8.5 x 7.5 x 5 cm and weighs 163 grams in the fixed state. Ine pleural surface is pale
violet to reddish violet and smooth. Along the apical portion are multiple metallic staple lines. The

pleural surfaces are predominantly smooth with the exception of a small 0.4 cm plaque- ike area of whitish
discoloration located 2.5 cm from the superior staple line along the anterolateral surface. At the hilum the

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

bronchial margin is identified and removed as a thin shave, submitted for frozen section. There are no
appreciable peribronchial nodes. Dissection of the bronchi reveals no intrabronchial tumor. The lung Is
serially sectioned at close ‘intervals to reveal consolidated dark red pulmonary parenchyma without
discrete masses. Representative sections are submitted. Section summary: B1) bronchial margin from
frozen section, B2) vascular margins, B3) possible small peribronchial nodes, B4) plaque-like pleural
discoloration (pleural surface inked), B5) apical lung sections along sta le lines and three small
peribronchial nodes, B6) apical and mid lung, B/) basilar uno

C. The specimen is N11R and Is received in formalin. It consists of a 0.7 x 0.9 x 0.5 cm fragment of
gray-tan anthracotic tissue. It is serially sectioned and submitted in cassette C1.

D. The specimen is labeled N11R#2 and is received in formalin. It consists of three 0.2 - 0./ cm
fragments of gray-tan to red-brown tissue which are submitted in cassette D1 fo

E. The specimen is labeled N7R and Is received in formalin. It consists of two fragments of fibrofatty tissue
which vary from 0.6 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm to 41 x0.7x0.7 cm. The smaller fragment contains a discrete 0.4 cm

gray-tan nodule. The larger fragment contains gray-tan moderately firm tissue. Tne ee iS

inked. It is serially sectioned and combined with the remaining tissue in cassette 1.
F. The specimen is labeled N4R and is received in formalin. It consists of multiple fragments of fibrofatty
tissue measuring 1.5 x 1.2 x 0.2 cmin aggregate. The tissue Is entirely submitted in cassette F1. pe

G. The specimen is labeled N10K and is received In = consists of a 0.2 cm fragment of dark
brown to black tissue which is submitted in cassette G1

Microscopic Description:

A. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered. Elastic stain, performed on block A2 with adequate control, confirms the presence of visceral
oleural invasion. Immunohistochemical studies performed on the primary tumor (block Az) reveal tne
neoplastic cells to be positive for CK7. MOC-31, Napsin-A, and TTF-1, and negative for CK5/6 and p63,
compatible with pulmonary adenocarcinoma. The incidental small lesion (block A4) is positive for CK/,
chromogranin, synaptophysin, and CD56. and negative for EMA, p63, and PR, supporting the
interpretation of carcinoid tumor. The Ki-67 proliferative index is low (<10%), making smal cell
carcinoma unlikely.

B Microscopic sections have been examined. [he microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered. Three peribronchial lymph nodes are identified, and are negative for metastasis.

C. Sections demonstrate one lymph node, negative for metastasis.

5. Sections demonstrate one lymph node, negative for metastasis.

= Sections demonstrate two lymph nodes, negative for metastasis.

= = a

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

CG Sections demonstrate one lymph node, negative for metastasis.

