QUID :FC3ACA4F-AA49 - 47F4 - 9BA3 - 7B18C56F64AD
                                                                   TC6A- 38-A44F - 01A-PR
                                                                                                          Redacted
                                                       II I II II I III I II I I II I II II I I II II I I I II I II I II II I II I I III I I II i O hil I III
                                                                             I I I I I I I I I I I I 1111111111111111111111111111111
                         SURGICAL PATHOLOGY            III IIIIIII II II I IIIIIIIIII II IIIIIII I IIIIIIII I IIIIIIIII I II I I III III
                         Case Number :

Diagnosis:
A: Lung, right upper lobe, wedge resection

Tumor histologic type (WHO): invasive lung adenocarcinoma,
acinar predominant (mixed acinar and micropapillary subtypes)

Tumor histologic grade (WHO): moderate to poorly differentiated

Tumor size: 3.2 cm maximum tumor size by gross examination

Focality: unifocal

Other structures involved: none

In situ carcinoma:    not identified

Extent of invasion:                 I C' D-0-3
Venous: not identified                 G{Cr)t)Go_rc ry0ry-Nct i                                 .ci flOtr
Arterial: not identified
Lymphatic: not identified
Perineural: not identified
Pleura: not identified

Surgical margins: negative

Lymph nodes :   no tumor seen in one lymph node in this specimen
(0/1)

Size of largest metastasis: not applicable

Extracapsular extension of tumor in lymph nodes: not applicable

Findings in nontumorous lung: emphysematous changes, multifocal
bronchiolar metaplasia and focal fibrous remodeling

AJCC PATHOLOGIC TNM STAGE: pT2a pNO
NOTE: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information
available at the time of this report, and is subject to change
pending clinical review and additional information.

B: Lymph node, Station 4, removal
- Benign fibroadipose soft tissue; no lymph nodes identified; no
tumor seen.

                                                    )iagnesis 6isrrsp_ncy
                                                    'rimaryTumot Site Discrepancy
                                                    IIPAA Disc.pancy
                                                    rrior Ma!igr:.ncy Hist_ory
                                                   7ua1/Synchronous Prima
                                                    as. is {ci(cli
                                                   teviewe
Comment :
Molecular studies have been ordered on a representative section
of the tumor to be reported separately by




Clinical History:
    year -old       with right upper lobe mass.

Gross Description:
Received are two appropriately labeled containers.

Container A is additionally labeled "right upper lobe wedge." It
holds a 51.8 gram, 11.0 x 4.0 x 2.8 cm wedge of lung. There is
an 11.0 cm staple line along one edge which is removed and the
exposed parenchyma is inked green. The pleura is notable for an
area of tan/white discoloration, roughly 2.1 x 1.6 cm which is
inked blue. This area comes to within 0..5 cm of the green inked
stapled parenchymal margin. Within the wedge there is a 3.2 x
2.4 x 1.5 cm tan, firm, somewhat circumscribed mass with central
cavitations. The mass is 0.4 cm from the green inked stapled
parenchymal margin, abuts the pleura, but does not appear to
grossly invade through it, and is surrounded by tan firm lung
 tissue. A portion of the mass and normal is submitted to Tissue
 Procurement. The remainder of the parenchyma is tan/brown and
 spongy.

 Block summary:
 A1,A2 - mass with respect to green inked parenchymal margin,
 perpendicular and overlying pleura
 A3 - additional section of mass with respect to pleura
 A4 - mass and adjacent lung parenchyma
 A5 - lung parenchyma away from mass

 Container B is additionally labeled "Station 4 lymph nodes." It
 holds a 2.6 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm fragment of yellow firm fibrofatty
 tissue. No lymph nodes are palpated within the tissue which is
  bisected and submitted in blocks Bl-B2,