HISTORY
Left upper lobe mass. No preoperative tissue diagnosis .

MACROSCOPIC
One specimen submitted.
The specimen is labelled 'left upper lobe wedge resection' and consists of a wedge oflung tissue, 130 x
70 x 30 mm. The specimen bears a line of staples 110 mm in length. Protruding from one aspect of
the pleural surface is a palpable mass. The pleura is free and mobile over the mass. 35 mm away from
this lesion is a firm pleural plaque, 30 mm in diameter. Elsewhere the pleura shows some irregular
grey and white discolouration. Serial slicing reveals a well defined yellowish white tumour mass, 25
mm in greatest diameter, approximately 2 mm deep to the pleura. The cut surface shows small areas of
yellowish necrosis. The tumour is at least 25 mm clear of the stapled surgical margin. No other lesions
are identified. The uninvolved lung shows severe emphysema. The mass lesion has been sampled for

_iir
Microbiology and for                         [IA-IB tumour with overlying pleura; lC-ID pleural
            decalcification; IE-IF uninvolved lung parenchyma.]


MICROSCOPY
Sections reveal a peripherally located moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma demonstrating
predominantly acinar and focal solid architecture. The tumour is positive for CK7 and TTFI and
negative for CK20. Zones of geographic necrosis are evident within the confines of the tumour. The
tumour does not involve the pleura and is macroscopically clear of the intraparenchymal stapled
margin. No lymphatic or vascular invasion is identified and no perineural permeation by tumour is
seen. Immediately adjacent alveolated lung parenchyma shows organising pneumonia and acute
bronchopneumonia. Remaining lung shows emphysema. Focal areas of pleural and subpleural
fibroelastotic scarring with calcification are noted. No granulomas are seen.

SUMMARY
Left upper lobe wedge resection:
Moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma.
Tumour size 25mm.
Pleura not involved.
Clear of margin.
No lymphatic, vascular or perineural invasion.
Pathological stage: n.
Immediately adjacent alveolated lung parenchyma shows organising pneumonia and acute
bronchopneumonia; remaining lung shows emphysema with areas of pleural and subpleural
fibroelastotic scarring.




T-28000 M-81403 PI-03000