SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

De-Identified Specimen Code:

Patient Age/S ex || M

SPECIMEN SUBMITTED:

Part A: RIGHT MIDDLE LOBE
Part B: #7

Part C: #8

PartD: #11

Part E: #10

Final Diagnosis

1. Right lung, middle lobe, lobectomy (A) Adenocarcinoma, mixed type with papillary,
bronchioloalveolar and acinar patterns..
- Four (4) peribronchiolar lymph nodes with anthracosis, negative for neoplasm,

2. Lymph nodes, #7, #8, #11, #10 (B-E) - Benign anthracotic lymph nodes.

Diagnosis Comment:
Tumor Location: Right middie lobe

Tumor Size: 2.1 x 1.2 x 0.5 cm

Vascular Invasion: Absent

Lymphatic Invasion: Absent

Bronchial Margin: Negative

Vascular Margin: Negative

Parenchymal Margins: Negative

Pleura/Soft Tissue Margin: Negative

Pathologic Stage (AJCC): pT1b NO M0: Stage IA

Intraoperative Diagnosis:
A, Bronchial margin is negative and tumor is adenocarcinoma.

Page 1 of 2
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Clinical Diagnosis:
SECONDARY MALIGNANT NEOPLASM RIGHT LUNG

Gross Description:

A. Received fresh for frozen section consultation is a specimen labeled "right middle lobe". The
specimen consists of a right middle lobectomy measuring 11.0 x 10.0 x 4.0 cm. The specimen weighs
75 grams prefixation. The bronchial remnant measures 0.4 cm in length. The pleural surface appears
smooth and glistening. A staple line of resection is present measuring 12 cm in length. The stapled
margin is inked orange. The specimen is serially sectioned perpendicular to the parenchymal line of
resection to reveal a yellow firm palpable mass measuring 2.1 x 1.2 x 0.5 cm. The central area
demonstrates a focal area of necrosis. The mass extends to within 0.5 cm of the pleural surface, 1.5
cm from the bronchial margin, and 1.2 cm from the nearest parenchymal line of resection. No other
gross abnormaiities are identified. The bronchus does not appear to be involved by neoplasm. The
remaining lung parenchyma appears tan-pink and unremarkable, No focal areas of consolidation or
emphysematous changes are present. Representative sections are submitted as follows: A1 bronchial
shave margin, A2 random section of tumor, A3 vascular margin, A4 mass with nearest parenchymal line
of resection, AS mass with adjacent vessel, AG-A8 remainder of mass in relationship to pleural surface,
AQ peripheral section to mass, A10 proximal section to mass, A117 lymph nodes totally submitted.

B. Received fresh on Telfa gauze labeledfiiiare multiple irregular shaped segments of tan-gray soft
tissue aggregating to 0.8 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is totally submitted in formalin in one
cassette.

C. Received fresh on Telfa gauze labeledfiibre multiple irregular shaped segments of tan-gray soft
tissue aggregating to 0.7 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is totally submitted in formalin in one
cassette.

D. Received fresh on Telfa gauze labeledfilbre multiple irregular shaped segments of tan-gray soft
tissue aggregating to 0.8 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is totally submitted in formalin in one
cassette.

E. Received fresh on Teifa gauze labeled are multiple irregular shaped segments of tan-gray soft
tissue aggregating to 1.2 x 1.2 x 0.6 cm. The specimen is totally submitted in formalin in one
cassette.

Microscopic:
{Not Entered}

Page 2 of 2
