LUNG, BRONCHUS AND MEDIASTINIUM

Clinical Notes: ; ;
Mediastinium nodes, ibronchial nodes LUL, LUL bronchus stump and
hilar lymph nodes.

Five specimens submitted.
A: LEFT UPPER LOBE

Macroscopy:
The specimen is labelled "L upper lobe", and consists of a lobectomy measuring
210 x 105 x 45 mm. There is a subpleural mass measuring 23 x 18 mm, which

has a white cut face with black speckling. The mass does not involve the
overlying pleura. It abuts a bronchus, but does not appear to involve it.

No other lesions are identified. No endobronchial lesions are seen.

[Sections taken, bronchial resection margin, Al; lymph nodes, AZ/A3; tumour,
A4-A6; normal lung, A7].

Microscopy:

Sections show a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma. The tumour does
not invade the pleura. The adjacent lung shows scarring and emphysema.
The resection margins are clear of the tumour. One of five peribronchial
lymph nodes contains metastatic adenocarcinoma.

B: LEFT MEDIASTINAL

Macroscopy: |
The specimen is labelled "L mediastinal", and consists of two pieces of
blackened lymph node, each measuring 12 and 8 mm in maximal dimension.
{Blocked in toto].

Microscopy:
Sections show two lymph nodes with no evidence of malignancy.
CO: LEFT PERIBRONCHIAL NODES .

Macroscopy:

The specimen is labelled “L peribronchial nodes", and consists of two pieces
of blackened lymph node, each measuring 25 x 22 x 14 mm, and 20 x 18 x & mn.
fRS of one node, Cli; other nodes, C2].

Microscopy:
Sections show two lymph nodes with no evidence of malignancy.

aw

a

D: LEFT BRONCHIAL STUMP
Macroscopy:

The specimen is labelled "“L bronchial stump", and consists of a segment of
bronchus measuring 18 x 15 x 9 mm in maximal dimension. [Blocked as 3175, Di].

Microscopy:
Sections show bronchus with no evidence of malignancy.

E: LEFT HILAR LYMPH NODE
Macroscopy:

The specimen is labelled "L hilar lymph node", and consists of blackened tissue
measuring 5 mm in maximal dimension. [Biocked in toto].

‘tions show a lymph node with no evidence of maiignancy.

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT - ELECTRON MICROSCO

Electron microscopy reveals acini with microvilli and junctional
complexes confirming the diagnosis of adenocarcinoma.

=
=
,
f

280

