TCGA-44-2661




SPECIMEN
       A.   Left upper lobe wedge
       B.   Lymph node level 5

CLINICAL NOTES
    PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS:      Lung cancer/breast cancer.

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
       Lung, left upper lobe, wedge biopsy: Adenocarcinoma.


GROSS DESCRIPTION
             A.   The specimen is received unfixed labeled "left upper
             lobe wedge" and consists of a pink and red lung resection
    specimen measuring 14.4 x 10 x 2.5 em. There is a slight area of
    thickening in the central portion of the specimen that is about 1.5
    em in greatest dimension by external palpation. On cut section the
    central tumor measures 1.5 em in diameter. Portions of the tumor
    are taken for research purposes.  The margin of resection is
grossly
    free of the disease. A portion of the tumor is taken for frozen
    section diagnosis. Additional sections after fixation. RS-7

                B. The specimen is received in formalin labeled "lymph
                node level 5 11 and consists of multiple pieces of black
soft
       tissue measuring 1 em in greatest aggregate dimension.   AS-1.



MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
             A.
                Tumor type: Adenocarcinoma with focal lepidic growth
                pattern.
                Tumor grade: 1-2 out of 3
                Mitotic Index: 0 mitoses/10 HPFs (1 HPF   0.19 sq mm)
MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
             Tumor size:  1.5 em.
             Pulmonary margin of resection:   Negative for malignancy
             Pleura:  Pleural elastosis. Negative for malignancy.
             Vascular invasion: Absent
             pTNM Stage:  Tl NO
             Non-tumorous lung:   Unremarkable.

     Antibody                 Results        Comment



     TTF-1                    Positive       Compatible with lung primary
     BRST-2                   Negative
     ER                       Negative
     PR                       Negative



     Paraffin sectionsi 10% neutral buffered formalin

     [A few of the antibodies used in our laboratory may be classified
as
     analyte specific reagents.         These antibodies are monitored and
     controlled in our laboratory and their performance for in vitro
     diagnosis is well described in the medical literature.          They have
     not been cleared or approved by the FDA.]

                B.   Portions of the lymph node are negative for
                malignancy.

     4, 3, 14, 20x4


     IHC stains added, as shown                                 th     .




DIAGNOSIS
    A.  Lung, left upper lobe, excisional biopsy:
          Well to moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma.