DIAGNOSIS:
Lung, left lower lobe, wedge excision with intraoperative consultation and microscopic slide examination:
Adenocarcinoma.

Tumor characteristics:

Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.

Location: Left lower lobe.

Focality: Unifocal.

Size: 2.0 x 1.8 cm, as measured grossly.
Grade: Well differentiated.

Lymphovascular space invasion: Not identified.
Visceral pleura involvement: Present.

Margin status:

Bronchial margin: Negative, at least 1 cm (see third specimen).
Stapled margin: Negative, 0.7 cm (also see third specimen).
Pleural margin: Negative (confirmed by CK7 immunostain).

Lymph node status:
Negative for metastatic malignancy (0/6--includes four nodes from level IX excision and two nodes from the lobectomy completion).

Lymph nodes, level |X, regiona! excision:
See above.

Lung, left lower lobe, completion lobectomy:

Negative for residual malignancy.

Bronchial margin is negative for malignancy.

Additional lymph nodes are negative for metastatic malignancy (0/2).

Other:

Specimen integrity: Intact for pathologic assessment.
Treatment effect: Not identified.

Staging: pT1, NO

COMMENTS:
The patient has history of renal cell carcinoma. Some of the areas of carcinoma have clear cell features while others demonstrate chromophilic features.

Therefore, immunchistochemical stains are performed to more conclusively exclude the unlikely possibility of a renal carcinoma metastasis. Likewise,
further assessment of the visceral pleura is performed. The results are as follows (controls stain appropriately):

Block A2

CK7: Strongly positive.
p63: Negative in tumor.
CD10: Negative in tumor.

Block A3:
CD10: Negative in tumor.

These findings are strong supportive evidence of an adenocarcinoma of lung origin and evidence againsi a renal cell carcinoma and a squamous cell
carcinoma. Although the carcinoma invades the visceral pleura, the actual pleural margin/surface appears negative.

~ CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis: Pe left lower lobe lung mass. R/O malignancy.
Postoperative Diagnosis:

Symptoms/Radiologic Findings:

SPECIMENS:
A. Left lower lung mass mm
B. Level S lymph node.

Cc. Left lower lobe.

~ GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received in three containers labeled the patient's name

A. Container A is additionally labeled left lower lobe lung mass and contains a 10.5 x 4.5 x 2.5 cm. purple-pink glistening lung wedge. The staple line is
removed and the underlying parenchyma is inked blue. The specimen is serially sectioned to reveal a 2.0 x 1.8 x 1.3 cm. ill-defined gray-white nodular
that approaches to within 0.7 cm. of the stapled margin and abuts the pleura which is not inked black. The remainder of the cut surface is red-pink and
spongy. Additional nodules or lesions are not identified.

A representative section is submitted for frozen section with the residual entirely re-submitted for permanent section in cassette A1 labeled

Additional representative sections to include the remainder of the mass are submitted in cassettes A2-5 designated as follows: su i ass;
5--normal appearing parenchyma. Additionally, a yellow, green and blue cassette are submitted for genomics research labele

B. Container B is additionally labeled level 9 lymph node and contains four gray-black rubbery nodules consistent with anthracotic lymph nodes. They
range from 0.4 up to 0.9 cm. in greatest dimension. They are entirely submitted in cassette B1 labeled

C. Container C is additionally labeled left lower lobe and contains a 13.5 x 7.0 x 5.5 cm. lung lobe. The pleura is purple-pink, mildly anthracotic and
glistening. Exposed bronchi are not identified. Two stapled margins are present, 10.0 and 9.0 cm. in length. The longer staple line is removed and the
underlying parenchyma is inked blue. The shorter staple line is removed to reveal bronchial and vascular margins. The bronchus is 0.5 cm. in length by
4.5 cm. in diameter and is bifurcated. The endobronchial mucosa is pink-tan and glistening with no discrete lesions. The vascular margins are gross
free of tumor. Adjacent to the bronchi and vasculature there are areas of red-pink parenchyma which are inked black. The specimen is serially
sectioned to reveal a pink-tan spongy cit eurfa-- with no discrete lesions. No parabronchial lymph nodes are identified. Representative sections are
submitted in cassettes C1-8 labeled signated as follows: C1 and 2—bronchial and vascular margins, en face; C3--longer stapled margin,
— 4--shorter stapled margin, perpendicular; 5 through 8-—-representative parenchyma.

-OPERATIVE CONSULTATION:
A. FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: Adenocarcinoma per Dr.

