HISTORY
Large right upper lobe tumour.

MACROSCOPIC
Six specimens received:

1: The specimen is labelled “middle and upper right lobe” and comprises right upper and middle lobe,
received fresh, and measuring 160 x 60 x 60 mm. There is a marked degree of pleural puckering and
indrawing over the postero-lateral surface of the upper lobe. The pleura overlying the middle lobe
appears normal. A stapled margin, 65 mm in length, is present above the hilum. The bronchial
resection margins and vascular resection margins show no evidence of tumour. Peribronchial lymph
nodes are black and soft. Transverse slicing reveals a somewhat ill-defined tumour mass, 47 mm in
diameter, within the postero-lateral aspect of the upper lobe extending almost to the pleural surface and
extending to within 10 mm of the bronchial resection margin. The surrounding lung parenchyma
appears consolidated and yellowish in colour. The main tumour mass is pale grey to cream in colour
with focal carbon pigmentation. The remainder of the lung parenchyma shows no pathological
features. Towards the apex of the upper lobe there is a second contiguous lobulated tumour mass, 30
mm in diameter, which also appears clear of the pleura. This has a more tan cut surface. [1A, upper
lobe bronchial resection margin and peribronchial lymph nodes; 1B, middle lobe bronchial resection
margin and peribronchial lymph nodes; 1C-E, tumour with overlying pleura; 1F, central tumour; 1G, 2
representative TS of additional tumour mass towards apex; 1H, uninvolved lung parenchyma from
middle lobe; 11, tissue adjacent to bronchus].

2: The specimen is labelled “pulmonary vein lymph node” and comprises an irregular portion of fatty
and anthracotic soft tissue, 25 x 10x 5mm. [BIT, 2A].

3: The specimen is labelled “pulmonary vein lymph node No. 2” and comprises fragments of
anthracotic soft tissue, 20 x 10 x 5 mm in aggregate. [BIT, 3A].

4: The specimen is labelled “No. 10 lymph node” and comprises two fragments of soft anthracotic

tissue, the first 5 mm in greatest diameter, and the second 15 x 15 x 7 mm. [BIT, the larger fragment
after bisection, 4A].

5: The specimen is labelled “right middle lobe lymph node” and comprises an irregular fragment of
soft anthracotic tissue, 20 x 8 x 5 mm. [BIT, 5A].

6: The specimen is labelled “No. 4 lymph node” and comprises a lymph node with surrounding fat,
overall size 20 x 15 x 8 mm. The lymph node is 12 x 8x 5 mm. [BIT after bisection, 6A].

MICROSCOPY

1: Sections show a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. The carcinoma has areas of mucinous
and papillary differentiation. The contiguous nodule has a similar appearance and it is considered that
these represent part of the same tumour. The main lesion is invading into an area of subpleural
elastotic scarring. Although no convincing pleural invasion is identified within the sections, special
stains will be performed. The other component also abuts the pleura but there is no pleural invasion.
Blood vessel invasion is present but no lymphatic or perineural permeation is seen. The mass is well
clear of the bronchial resection margin but there is squamous metaplasia with severe dysplasia at the

middle lobe bronchial resection margin. No lymph node metastases are seen. The uninvolved lung
shows no specific abnormality.

2: Sections of the lymph nodes show reactive changes only. There is no evidence of malignancy.

3: Sections of the lymph node fragments show reactive changes only. There is no evidence of
malignancy.

4: Sections of the lymph node show reactive changes only. There is no evidence of malignancy.

5: Sections of the lymph node show reactive changes only. There is no evidence of malignancy.
6: Sections of the lymph node show reactive changes only. There is no evidence of malignancy.

SUMMARY

Right upper and middle lobes and lymph nodes:

1: Moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of right upper lobe; approximately 47 mm in maximal
dimension.

2: Blood vessel permeation identified but no lymphatic or perineural invasion present.

3: No convincing pleural invasion identified but special stains being performed; clear of bronchial
margin.

4: No lymph node metastases.

5: TZ2NOMX

6: Squamous metaplasia with severe dysplasia at right middle lobe bronchial resection margin.

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT
Some of the tumour cell nuclei stain strongly with TTF 1 in keeping with a pulmonary primary.

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT
No pleural invasion is identified with special stains.

T-28000 M-81403 P1-03000

