SPECIMEN
    A. Right upper lobe
    B. R4
    C. Level 7

CLINICAL NOTES
    PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS:   Lung cancer

GROSS DESCRIPTION
             A. Received fresh for tissue procurement labeled "right
             upper lobe" is a 285 gm, 19 x 12.8 x 3.8 cm lobectomy
    specimen with attached 1 cm in length, 1.7 x 0.8 cm in diameter
    bronchial stump. The pleura is focally hemorrhagic, tan-pink-gray.
    On sectioning, there is a stellate, 2 x 1.8 x 1.8 cm rubbery pale
    tan lesion within the inferior portion of the specimen. The lesion
    extends to within 2.4 cm of the pleural surface (inked blue). A
    portion of tumor and a portion of normal parenchyma are submitted
    for tissue procurement as requested. The parenchyma throughout the
    remainder of the specimen is spongiform, tan-pink to red-purple
    without additional mass lesion or abnormality. Two slightly rubbery
    gray-black tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 1.3
    cm in greatest dimension are recovered from the hilar region of the
    specimen.   e   sentative sections are submitted in ten blocks as
    labeled.    -

   BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Bronchial stump margin; 2 - vascular margin; 3 -
   tumor to inked pleural surface; 4-6 - tumor to adjacent parenchyma;
   7&8 - random including subpleural hem       ; 9 - one whole lymph
   node; 10 - one bisected lymph node.

            B. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin, labeled
            "B. R4" multiple black pink irregular soft tissue
   fragments which have an aggregate measurement of 0.8 x      0.3 cm.
   The specimens are entirely submitted in one cassette.


            C. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
            "level 7" are multiple black pink red irregular soft tissue
   fragments which have an aggregate measurement of 1.5 x     x 0.7 cm.
         ecimens are entirely submitted in one cassette.      .




MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
             A, B and C. Microscopic examination performed and
             summarized below:


   Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.
   Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated.
   Primary tumor (pT): Is 2 cm. in greatest dimension with no
   extension to the pleura and no involvement of the large bronchi
   (pT1a).
   Margins of resection: Negative for tumor.
Direct extension of tumor: Tumor invades pulmonary parenchyma with
    no extension to pleura and no extension to main stem bronchi.
    Venous (large vessel) invasion: Present (best seen in slide A5).
    Arterial (large vessel) invasion: Absent.
    Lymphatic (small vessel) invasion: Present, best seen in slide A6.
    Regional lymph nodes (pN): Two lymph nodes are dissected from
    specimen A. They are both negative for metastatic tumor. One lymph
    node is dissected from specimen B and 4 lymph nodes from specimen C
    (pN0).
    Distant metastasis (pM): Cannot evaluate pMx.
    Other findings: There is an area of intraparenchymal pulmonary
    hemorrhage with dropout of pulmonary parenchyma. This is somewhat
     no specific but is associated with some hemosiderin and thus does
     not appear procedural to this surgery. It could be secondary to a
    pulmonary embolus, but no organized thromboembolus is identified
     adjacent to the hemorrhage. No intraparenchymal metastasis is
     identified.

   5x1, 3x2


DIAGNOSIS
    A. Lung, right upper lobe, lobectomy:
         Adenocarcinoma 2 cm. in greatest dimension, pleura and main
         stem bronchus negative for tumor (pT1a).
         Venous space invasion and lymphatic space invasion present.
         Resection margins are negative for tumor.
         Separate parenchymal hematoma.
         Two lymph nodes negative for metastatic tumor (0/2).
    B. Lymph node, R4, biopsy:
         Single lymph node negative for metastatic tumor (0/1).
    C. Lymph nodes, level 7, biopsy:
         Four lymph nodes negative for metastatic tumor (0/4).




                       --- End Of Report ---