Phon



                      Final Surgical Pathology Report


Procedure:

Diagnosis
A. Right lower lobe of lung, lobectomy: Right lower lobe of lung with
subpleural poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma. Vascular invasion
present. Bronchial and vascular margins of resection negative for
tumor.

B. Level II, excision: Lymph node with anthracosis, negative for
metastatic disease.

C. Level VII, excision: Lymph node with anthracosis, negative for
metastatic disease.

D.   R4, excision: Lymph nodes negative for metastatic disease

Microscopic Description:
This right lower lobe of lung contains a subpleural, poorly
differentiated adenocarcinoma. Stain for TT F 1 is strongly positive,
supporting a lung primary. The tumor measures 3.5 cm in maximum
dimension. Arterial invasion is noted. Please see the template below:
Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma
Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated
Primary tumor (pT): pT2a
Margins of resection: Negative
Direct extension of tumor: Negative
Venous (large vessel) invasion: Negative
Arterial (large vessel) invasion: Positive
Lymphatic (small vessel) invasion: Negative
Regional lymph nodes (pN): As per parts B. through D., all lymph nodes
are negative for metastatic disease, pN0
Distant metastasis (pM): Cannot be assessed
Other findings: None

B. through D. microscopic examination performed


Specimen
A. Right lower lobe
B. Level II
C. Level VII
D. R4


Clinical Information
Lung cancer, endometrial cancer


Gross Description
A. The specimen is received fresh labeled "right lower lobe ". It
consists of the right lower lobe of lung weighing 176 g and measuring
16 x 11 x 3.7 cm. There is a 5.5 cm staple line near the hilum. Also
in the hilar area there is a stapled bronchial stump which measures 6
mm in diameter when removing staples. A stapled vessel is also noted
in the hilum measuring 7 mm in diameter. These margins appear
unremarkable. The pleural surface is smooth and mostly pink and
glistening with minimal anthracotic pigmentation. In the superior
anterior portion, however, there is marked puckering and retraction of
the pleura. This area is painted black. On section it corresponds to
a superficial, fleshy tan dull tumor mass measuring 3.5 x 2.1 x 2.5 cm.
 A touch preparation is made and a sample is taken for Tissue
Procurement. Remaining pulmonary parenchyma is soft pink and spongy.
Upon exploring the major vessels and bronchi, no lesions are found.
Rep. sections are submitted following fixation
Blood account: 1-bronchial and vascular margins     esection ; 2
through 5-tumor; 6 through 7-noninvolved lung.

B. The specimen is received unfixed labeled "level II". It consists of
a single glistening soft reddish blac   dule measuring 0.7 cm in
greatest dimension. It is bisected,

C. Received fresh labeled "level VII" is a 1.6 x 1.2 x 0.5 cm soft
tan-red-gray tissue. The specimen is quadrasected and entirely
submitted in one block.

D. Received fresh labeled "R4" is a 1.5 x 1.2 x 0.5 cm portion of soft
lobulated gold and yellow adipose tissue with interspersed tan grey
discoloration. The specimen is quadrasected and entirely submitted in
    block.