SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT



De-Identified Specimen Code:

Patient Age/Sex

SPECIMEN SUBMITTED:
Part A: 4L
Part B: 7
Part C: 4R
Part D: 2R
Part E: R12
Part F: RIGHT MIDDLE LOBE
Part G: RIGHT LOWER LOBE MARGIN
Part H: RIGHT MIDDLE LOBE
PULMONARY ARTERIAL MARGIN
Part I: RIGHT MIDDLE LOBE BRONCHIAL
MARGIN
Part J: RIGHT MIDDLE LOBE
PULMONARY VEIN MARGIN
Part K: R11
Part L: R12
Part M: LEVEL 7
Part N: 4R
Part 0: RIGHT MIDDLE LOBE
ADDITIONAL LOWER LOBE MARGINS




                                                           Paga 1 of 6
                                    SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Final Diagnosis
1. Lymph nodes, 4L, 7, 4R, 2R, R12, excision (A-E)· Lymph nodes with anthracosis negative for
neoplasm.

2. Right lung, middle lobe, lobectomy (F)· Adenocarcinoma with solid (60%), acinar (20%) and
cribriform (20%) patterns .
• Centrllobular emphysema.

3. Right lung, lower lobe, margin, excision (G) - Detached cluster of malignant cells consistent with
adenocarcinoma.

4. Right lung, middle lobe, pulmonary arterial margin, excision (H) • Atypical cells of un'certaln
clinical significance present In lumen.

5. Lung, middle lobe, bronchial margin, excision (I) - Segment of bronchial wall with no diagnostic
alterations.

6. Right lung, middle lobe, pulmonary vein margin, excision (J) Detached cluster of atypical cells of
uncertain clinical significance.

7. Lymph node, R11, R12, level 7, 4R, excision (K-N) - Lymph nodes with anthracosis, negative for
neoplasm.

8. Lung, middle lobe, additional lower lobe margin, excision {OJ • Lung parenchyma, negative for
neoplasm.




                                                                                                        Page 2 of6
                                     SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

  Diagnosis Comment:
 2. An Immunohistochemical panel was performed revealing that the tumor cells are positive for CAM 5.2 and
 TTF-1. Focal positivity Is noted with synaptophysln. Tumoral cells are negative for chromogranln, p63, and
 CD56. Mitotic activity Is approximately 7 mitoses per 10 high-power field. The morphologic findings along with
 Immunohistochemical profile are In keeping with an adenocarcinoma of the lung. Clear cell change and focal
 signet ring cell patterns, as can be seen In lung adenocarclnomas,qa are present. This tumor will be sent for
 EGFR mutational analysis and the results of those studies reported as an addendum.

 Tumor Location: Right middle lobe

 Tumor Size: 4.1 x 4 x 3.7 em

 Vascular Invasion: Absent

. Lymphatic Invasion: Absent

 Bronchial Margin: Negative

 Vascular Margin: Rare clusters of tumor cells are present In the perivascular soft tissue of the pulmonary vein
 margin (Part J) but not within the vessel lumen. The pulmonary artery margin of excision (Part H) contains
 atypical cells within the lumen but this is Interpreted as negative.

 Parenchymal Margins: The final lower lobe margin of excision Is negative for neoplasm (Part 0).

 Pleura/Soft Tissue Margin: Negative

 Pathologic Stage (AJCC): pT2a NO, Stage lB.

 GENERAL COMMENT

Part Hand J: Both of these specimens contain detached clusters of atypical cells. The cells In Part Hare
present within a lumen of the vessel and the cells In Part J are outside of the vessel In a detached cluster. In
neither case is there definitive neoplasm present in the frozen section slide. These margins are Interpreted as
negative for neoplasm.




_he
ANALYTE SPECIFIC REAGENT (ASR) DISCLAIMER

This test was developed and Its performance characteristics determined by
                       U.S. Food and Drug Administration has not approved or cleared
this test; however, FDA clearance or approval Is not currently required for clinical use.



Procedure: EGFR Mutation Analysis Re                                 Status: Ordered
 Text:        {Not Entered}




                                                                                                       Page 3 of 6
                                    SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Intraoperative DIagnosis:
A. Negative for tumor

B. Negative for carcinoma

C. Negative for carcinoma

D. Negative for carcinoma

E. Negative for carcinoma

F. Vascular margln'deslgnated by the surgeon - negative for tumor

G. Atypical cells present, suspicious for cancer
                                                                        ...
H. Atypical cells present In lumen of uncertain clinical significance

i. Negative for tumor

J. Negative for tumor

O. Negative for tumor

Clinical DIagnosis:
LUNG CA




                                                                              Page 4 of 6
                                   SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Gross Description:
 A. Received fresh at the frozen desk, labeled .Is    a O.S x 0.5 x 0.3 cm single piece of black-brown
 nodule. The specimen Is totally submitted for frozen section In Ai.

 B. Received fresh at the frozen desk labeled.are multiple fragments of tan-black soft tissue
 measuring 2 x 1.9 x 0.4 cm In aggregate. Representative sections are submitted for frozen section In
 one cassette labeled B1. The remainder Is totally submitted for permanent sections In one cassette
 labeled B2.

 C. Received fresh at the frozen desk, labeled  _is    a 0.9 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm black-brown soft tissue
 fragment. The specimen Is totally submitted for frozen section In one cassette labeled C1.

 D. Received fresh at the frozen desk, labeled _Is a 1.6 x 1.7 x 0.4 cm soft tissue fragment. The
 specimen Is totally submitted In one cassette labeled D1.




E. Received fresh at the frozen desk is a specimen labeled_It consists of a single piece of brown-
red nodule that measures 0.7 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. Totally submitted for frozen section In cassette E1.

F. Received In formalin l a b e l e d _ _ . . l s a 104.1 gram lobectomy specimen of the middle
lobe of the right lung (10.5 x 6.~nchlal remnant (0.3 em In length and 0.5 cm in
diameter). A suture line Is removed and the parenchyma Is Inked orange. The pleural surface Is Inked
blue. A 4.1 x 4 x 3.7 cm poorly circumscribed firm gray-white mass Is Identified at <0.1 cm from the
pleura, 0.2 cm from the parenchymal margin, 0.3 cm from the bronchial margin. The tumor causes
retraction of the overlying pleura, but does not grossly Invade through the pleura, which has a smooth
and glistening surface. There Is a fibrous pleural scar with pleural detachment (3.5 x 3 x 0.2 cm)
extending to the resection margin. A firm dark brown area of parenchymal consolidation Is present
adjacent to the tUmor. Also, received Is a 2.5 x 1.2 x 1 cm additional piece of white-tan tissue.
Representative sections are submitted as follows: F1 frozen section of vascular margin stained with Dlff
-Quick, F2 bronchial margin, F3 additional vascular margins, F4-F6 tumor In relation to pleural surface
(area of retraction), F7-FS tumor In relation to parenchymal margin of resection and pleural surface with
area of fibrosis, F9 tumor In relation to bronchus, F10 tumor In relation to vess6!s\ 'Pf1 tumor with
uninvolved parenchyma, F12 uninvolved parenchyma, F13 parenchyma with area of consolidation, F14
representative section of additional segment.

G. Received fresh at the frozen desk Is a specimen                                    it consists of
multiple fragments of red-brown soft tissue that measures In aggregate 1.2 x 0.9 x 0.3 cm. The
specimen Is totally submitted for frozen section evaluation in cassette G1.

H. Received fresh at the frozen desk is a specimen
_ I t consists of a single piece of vessel with lumen that measures 0.6 x
specimen Is totally submitted for frozen section evaluation In cassette Hi.




                                                                                                       Page 5 of 6
                                                                                ,.~', :"~.
                                    SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 Gross Description:
 I. Received fresh at the frozen desk is a specimen labeled                                         It
 consists of a single piece of bronchus that measures 1.4 x 0.9 x 0.4 cm. The specimen Is totally
 submitted for frozen section In cassette 11.

 J. Received fresh at the frozen desk is a specimen lab                                                     It
 consists of a single piece of vascular margin that measures
 submitted for frozen section evaluation as J1.

 K. Received fresh Is a tan-gray nodule resembling a lymph node measuring 0.9 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm. Totally
 submitted In one cassette.

 L. Received fresh are four tan-gray nodules resembling lymph nodes ranging in size from 0.3 to 1.0 em.
 The largest nodule Is totally submitted In L 1. The remaining three nodules are totally submitted In L2.
 Also received In the same container are segments of tan soft membranous tissue measuring 1.6 x 1.2 x
 0.2 em. The larger segment of soft tissue Is sectioned Into three pieces and totallysubmltted In L3. The
 smaller membranous segment of tissue Is sectioned Into two pieces and totally submitted In L4.

 M. Received in formalin are four tan-gray nodules resembling lymph nodes r~~Q\,~~\~,~~ze,f;,om 0.310
 2.1 cm. The largest nodule Is totally submitted In Mi. The second largest nodUle Is totally sUbmitted in
 M2, The remaining two nodules are totally submitted In M3.                   ' ""    ,',

 N. Received fresh are three tan-gray nodules resembling lymph nMes ranging In size from 0.3 to 2.5
 em. The largest nodule is bisected and totally submitted In N1-N2. The second largest nodule Is totally
 submitted In N3. The smallest nodule is totally submitted In N4.

 O. The specimen Is received fresh at the frozen desk labeled
_ a n d consists of a 3.5 x 1 x 0.6 cm segment of lung        h".r'QI"H,h\ltTl

removing the staple lines, the specimen Is totally submitted for frozen section In 01.




Microscopic:
{Not Entered}




                                                                                                         Page 6 of 6