TGGA-38-4628

  i.agnosis:
    Lymph node, right hilar {RlO), biopsy.
 - One lymph node, negative for carcinoma.
 - Hyalinized granulomata.

 B: Lung, right upper lobe, lobectomy.
 - Invasive moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma.
 - Metastatic adenocarcinoma involving 1 (of 4) hilar lymph node.
 - Hyalinized and partially calcified granulomata involving hilar lymph nodes and pulmonary parenchyma.

C: Lymph nodes, R4, biopsy.
- Multiple (2) lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma.
- Hyalinized granulomata.

D: Lymph node, right mainstem bronchus, biopsy.
- One lymph node, negative for carcinoma.
- Hyalinized granulomata.

E: I,ymph node, R9, biopsy.
- One lymph node, negative for carcinoma.

F: Lymph node, station 7, biopsy.
- One lymph node, negative for carcinoma.

Conunent:
See light microscopy template for additional prognostic and staging information.


Intraoperative Consultation:

A frozen section consultation tvas requested by Dr.

FSAl: Lymph node, right hilar (RlO), biopsy
- Lymph node with anthracotic pigment, no neoplasm identified

  .Bl: Right upper lobe mass, lobectomy
- Non-small cell carcinoma

FSB2: Bronchial margin, right upper lobectomy
- No neoplasm identified


Clinical History:
The patient has a right upper lobe mass.

Gross Description:
Received are six appropriately labeled containers.

Container A: Received fresh for frozen section is a 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.5 em dark red soft tissue fragment which is
bisected. One half was previously frozen as FSAl and is submitted in block FSAl. 'l'he remainder of the tissue is
submitted in block Al.

Container B is additionally labeled "RUL."

Specimen fixation: formalin

Type of specimen/parts of lung received: right upper lobectomy

Size of specimen: approximately 12.8 x 9.7 x 2.0 em

Neight of specimen: 130.5 grams

Other attached structures: none

Tumor location: central-near bronchial margin

Tumor size: 3.5 x 2.4 x 2.3 em

 ~lationship of tumor to bronchus: does not grossly appear to involve bronchus, however, it appears to be
  owing around the bronchus

Distance of tumor to bronchial margin: 0.3 em

Relationship/distance of tumor to pleura: not invading the pleura, 0.2 em
Distance of tumor to other surgical margins:

Presence/absence of satellite tumor nodules: Present, two small pleural nodules are
identified; one is 0.4 em in diameter and is approximately 5.2 em from the main tumor mass. The second mass is
  4 em in diameter and is 3.1 em from the main tumor mass.

Involvement of attached structures by tumor: not identified

Description of nontumorous lung: Sectioning the remainder of the lung exhibits soft, spongy, red aerated lung
parenchyma with possible post-obstructive changes.

Comment: The bronchial margin was inked black along with a staple line. The bronchial margin was previously
frozen. A portion of the tumor was given to Tissue Procurement (3 x 2.8 x 2.3 em). A portion of the mass was
previously frozen as FSB1 and is submitted in block FSB1. The bronchial margin was previously frozen as FSB2
and is submitted in block FSB2.

Block Summary:

B1   additional bronchial margin (superseded by frozen section)
82 - bronchial lymph node candidate
83 - tumor and bronchus
B4 - tumor and adjacent lung
B5 - tumor and pleura
B6 - nodule closest to main tumor mass, bisected
87 - nodule furthest from main tumor mass, bisected
BB - representative lung with possible post-obstructive changes
B9 - uninvolved lung


Container Cis additionally labeled "R4." It holds a 1.0 x 0.6 x 0.5 em aggregate of two fragments of red/gray
tissue.              )

Container Dis additionally labeled "mainstem bronchus lymph node." It holds a 1.0 x 0.5 x 0.4 em fragment of
dark gray tissue.

Container E is additionally labeled "R9." It holds a 0.8 x 0.5 x 0.3 em fragment of gray/tan tissue.


--·:mtainer F is additionally labeled "station 7." It holds a 1.5 x 0.5 x 0.2 em fragment of dark gray/brown soft
 1.ssue.                )


Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr.

(Specimen B)

Tumor histologic type (WHO classification) : adenocarcinoma

Tumor histologic grade (WHO classification) : moderately differentiated

Tumor size (greatest dimension): 3.5 em

Histologic assessment of surgical margins: surgical margins, including bronchial resection margin, appear
negative for carcinoma

Pleural involvement: negative for carcinoma

In situ carcinoma: not identified

Invasion;
angiolymphatic - not identified
perineural - present

Lymph nodes (by node group): -Metastatic adenocarcinoma involving 1 (of 5) hilar lymph node.
- Multiple (2, R4i 1, right mainstem bronchusi 1, R9; 1, station 7) lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma.

r:xtracapsular extension of tumor in lymph nodes: not identified

Findings in nontumorous lung: hyalinized granulomata