ee = eee ae ieee eee ee ee RE Ea alae ee” ee eee EE lteter = —SSS cee eee == —————————
|
i

= = a —_  —- et = ee ee 7 cee ne ae eee So eee eee =e — _=_ were eee _ _ ee GC EE —— a ———
1

Patient Name MR# Observation Date |Last Edited Date |

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY CASE: —a Bunaived Date: ee

Diagnosis
A. Lymph node, level VIII, excision:
- Benign fibroadipose tissue with no significant histopathological abnormalities. - No lymph nodes noted.
B. Lymph node, level IX, excision:- One lymph node negative for malignancy (0/1).
C. Lymph node, level VII, excision: - Multiple lymph nodes negative for malignancy.
D. Lymph nodes, level Il, excision: - Multiple lymph nodes negative for malignancy.
E. Lymph nodes, level IV-R, excision:- Multiple lymph nodes negative for malignancy.
F. Lymph node, level XI, excision: - One lymph negative for malignancy (0/1).
G. Bronchial margin, excision: - Negative for malignancy.
H. Lung, right upper lobe, lobectomy: - Adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated. - Tumor measures 2.0 cm in

maximal dimension. - Pleura is not involved by tumor. - Surgical resection margin is free of tumor. - Multiple peribronchial
lymph nodes negative for malignancy. - Subpleural bullae noted.

Clinical Information
The patient is am year old male with lung nodule.

Frozen Section Diagnosis
GFS1 - Bronchial margin, biopsy:- No tumor seen.
HFS1 - Lung, right upper lobe, excision: - Non small cell carcinoma, consistent with adenocarcinoma. ee

Gross Description
The specimen are received in eight separate containers, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record
number. The first container is further labeled "#1 level VIII lymph node". It consist of small pieces of lymphoid tissue that
measure 0.5 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm in three dimension. This material will be submitted entirely.

The second container is further labeled "#2 level IX lymph node". It consist of lymph nodes that measure 0.7 x 0.5 x 0.4
cm in three dimension. This material will be submitted entirely.

The third container is further labeled #3 level VII lymph node”. It consist of a piece of tan-pink, soft tissue with lymph
nodes that measure 2.5 x 1.6 x 0.3 cm in three dimension. The specimen will be submitted entirely.

The fourth container is further labeled "#4 level Il lymph node’. It consist of multiple pieces of tan and yellow, soft tissue
with lymph nodes that measure 2.2 x 1.5 x 0.6 cm in aggregate. The lymph node will be dissected from soft tissue and will
be submitted entirely.

The fifth container Is further labeled "#5 level |V-R lymph node". It consist of multiple pieces of tan and yellow, soft tissue
with lymph nodes that measure 2.4 x 1.3 x 0.8 cm in aggregate. The lymph node will be dissected from the tissue and will
be submitted entirely.

The sixth container is further labeled "#6 level XI lymph node". It consist of small pieces of lymph node that measure 0.4 x
0.3 x 0.3 cm in three dimensions. The specimen will be submitted entirely.

2 '
The seventh container is further labeled "#7 bronchial margin". It consist of a cassette that is labeled "G1 | that
contain material for previous frozen analysis. The specimen measure 0.9 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm in three dimension. This material
will be submitted in cassette G1.

The eighth container is further labeled "#8 right upper lobe". It consist of a cassette that is labeled "H1, MM". The
cassette contain the material for previous frozen analysis that measure 2.1 x 1.2 x 0.3 cm in three dimension. This
specimen will be resubmitted in cassette H1. The specimen measure 13.5 x 10.1 x 2.5 cm in three dimension. There Is a
tumor nodule lesion identified that measure 2.0 cm in maximal dimension. The cut surface of the lesion is tan-white with
focal black area. The lesion is located about 4.5 cm away from the nearest surgical resection margin. There is a second
lesion identified that measure 4.5 cm in maximum dimension. This is a cyst-like lesion. Serial sections reveal solid lesion
with firm and solid component. The second lesion is located about 1.0 cm away from the first lesion. Serial section
through the rest of the lung tissue reveal no other apparent lesions. A representative section will be submitted per block
summary.

Block Summary

A1- Level VIII lymph node

Bi- Level IX lymph node

C1- Level VII lymph node

Di- Level Il lymph node

E1- Level IV-R lymph node

F1- Level Xl lymph node

G1- Bronchial margin-frozen section
H1- Right upper lobe-frozen section
H2- Peribronchial lymph nodes

H3- Parenchymal surgical resection margin close to the tumor
H4- Bronchial surgical margin

H5- Blood vessel surgical margin
H6-H9-Solid nodular lung lesion

H10- Cystic lung lesion

Microscopic Description: A microscopic examination has been performed. re

SP Synoptic Report H: Thorax Lung

SPECIMEN: Lobe(s) of lung: Right upper lobe
PROCEDURE:Lobectomy

SPECIMEN INTEGRITY: Intact

SPECIMEN LATERALITY: Right

TUMOR SITE: Upper lobe

TUMOR SIZE: Greatest dimension: 2.0 cm

TUMOR FOCALITY: Unifocal

HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Adenocarcinoma

HISTOLOGIC GRADE: G2: Moderately differentiated

VISCERAL PLEURA INVASION: Not identified

TUMOR EXTENSION BRONCHIAL MARGIN: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
VASCULAR MARGIN: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
PARENCHYMAL MARGIN: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
PARIETAL PLEURAL MARGIN: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

LYMPH-VASCULAR INVASION: LYMPH NODES: Not identified

PRIMARY TUMOR (pT): pT 1a: Tumor 2 cm or less in greatest dimension, surrounded by lung or visceral pleura,
without bronchoscopic evidence of invasion more proximal than the lobar bronchus (ie, not in the main bronchus); or

REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN): pNQ: No regional lymph node metastasis
