SURGICAL PATHOLOGY, REPORT



De-Identified Specimen C o d e : _

Patient Age/Sex
SPECIMEN SUBMITTED:
Part A: LYMPH NODE #7
Part B: LYMPH NODE L-4
Part C: LYMPH NODE R-4
Part D: LYMPH NODE R-2
Part E: RIGHT UPPER LOBE
Part F: LYMPH NODE #10
Part G: LYMPH NODE R-4
Part H: LEVEL 7

Final Diagnosis
1. Lymph nodes, #7, L4, R4, R2, #10, R4, level 7, excision (A-D; F-H) - Lymph nodes; negative for
neoplasm.

2. Right lung, upper lobe, lobectomy (E) - Adenocarcinoma, mixed type with solid, acinar and
bronchioloalveolar cell carcinoma patterns and clear cell features (see comment).
- Metastatic adenocarcinoma in one peribronchial lymph node.
- Centrolobular emphysema.




                                                                                                    Page 1 of 3
                                      SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis Comment:
2.
Tumor Location: Right upper lobe

Tumor Size: 6.3 x 2.9 x 2.0 cm.

Vascular Invasion: present.

Lymphatic Invasion: Not identified.

Bronchial Margin: Negative for neoplasm.

Vascular Margin: Negative for neoplasm.

Parenchymal Margins: Not applicable.

Pleura/Soft Tissue Margin: The tumor infiltrates through the visceral pleura and is present at the pleural surface
(Movat stains evaluated In blocks E4-E7).

Pathologic Stage (AJCC): p stage liB (T2b N1 MX)

Additional comment: Immunohistochemical stains show that the tumor cells are immunoreactive to TTF-1. A
p63 is negative. EGFR mutation analysis will be performed. An addendum report will follow with these results.

ANALYTE SPECIFIC REAGENT (ASR) DISCLAIMER


_he
This test was developed and its performance characteristics determined by the
                       U.S. Food and Drug Administration has not approved or
this test; however, FDA clearance or approval is not currently required for clinical use.


Intraoperative Diagnosis:
 A. Negative for malignancy

 B. Negative for malignancy

 C. Negative for malignancy

 D. Negative for malignancy

 E. Poorly differentiated non-small cell carcinoma.

Clinical Diagnosis:
RUL LESION




                                                                                                       Page 2 of 3
                                   SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Gross Description:
 A, Received fresh at the frozen desk is a specimen labeled "lymph node #7" which consists of multiple
 fragments of tan-black soft tissue measuring in aggregate 1.0 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is entirely
 submitted for frozen in Ai.

 B. Received fresh at the frozen desk is a specimen labeled "lymph node L-4" which consists of three
 tan-brown segments of soft tissue ranging in size from 3 to 1.0 cm in greatest dimension. The
 specimen is entirely submitted for frozen in B 1.

 C. Received fresh at the frozen desk is a specimen labeled "lymph node R-4" which consists of multiple
 fragments of tan-red soft tissue measuring in aggregate 1.5 x 1.4 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is entirely
 submitted for frozen in C1.

 O. Received fresh at the frozen desk is a specimen labeled "lymph node R-2" which consists of one tan
 -red nodule that measures 0.7 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen in 01.




 E. Received labeled "right upper lobe" is a right lobectomy specimen of the upper lobe measuring 13.5
x 12 x 3.5 cm, and weighing 260.9 grams. The specimen was received at the gross bench already
partially cut. The bronchial remnants are 1.5 cm in width and 0.7 cm in width, and both are roughly 1.5
cm in length. The pleural surface shows and area of puckering roughly 4 cm In length, but no mass is
seen grossly invading through the pleura. The remainder of the pleura away from the puckering is
smooth and glistening The cut sections show a white-gray lesion that measures 6.3 x 2.9 x 2 cm and
appears to be abutting the pleural surface. The mass is 1.7 cm from the bronchial margin, 1.8 cm from
the vascular margin, and 2 cm from the parenchymal margin. The remainder of the lung away from the
mass shows emphysematous changes. No other masses or lesions are identified. Representative
sections are submitted as follows: E1 frozen of mass, E2 bronchial margin, E3 vascular margin, E4·E9
mass in relation to pleura (pleura inked blue), E10 mass in relation to parenchymal margin (inked
yellow), E11 additional section of mass, E12 normal lung, E13-E16 possible lymph nodes (two in each




-
cassette).




F. Received fresh labeled "Iymph node #10" is a specimen consisting of multiple fragments of
anthracotic tissue ranging from 0.6 to 1.1 cm. The tissue is totally submitted in cassettes labeled F1-
F2.

G. Received fresh labeled "lymph node R4" is a specimen consisting of multiple fragments of
anthracotic tissue ranging from 0.4 to 1.2 cm. The tissue is totally submitted in cassette labeled G1.

H. Received fresh labeled "level 7" is a specimen consisting of multiple fragments of anthracotic tissue




-
measuring 0.4 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm in aggregate. The tissue is totally submitted in cassette labeled Hi.



M icroscopic:
{Not Entered}

                                                                                                          Page 3 of 3