CON OAAAWNH > Mm

ho

DIAGNOSIS:

A. Right upper tobe lung mass; biopsy:
Adenocarcinoma.
Intraoperative consultation corroborated.

. Station 10; excision:

No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/1).

. Interlobar lymph node; excision:

No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/1).

Right paratracheal lymph node; excision:
No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/1).

. Right upper lung lobe; lobectomy:

Tumor Characteristics:

. Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.

. Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated.
. Tumor site: Right upper lobe.

. Tumor focality: Unifocal.

Tumor size: 4.5x3.0x 2.5 cm.

. Visceral pleural invasion: Not identified.

. Lymphovascular space invasion: Not identified.

_ Tumor extension: Tumor fimited to the pulmonary parenchyma.
. Treatment effect: Not identified.

Surgical Margin Status:

. Tumor distance from bronchial margin: 0.2 cm.
_ Tumor distance from parenchymal (stapied) margin: 0.2 cm.
_ Tumor distance from pleural surface: 0.7 cm.

Lymph Node Status:

. Total number of lymph nodes received: 4, see specimens B, C, D and F.
_ Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: 0 (0/4).

Other:

. pINM stage: pT2a NO.
. Lung cancer molecular panel is pending, results will be reported as an addendum.

. Subcarinal lymph node; excision:
No metastatic carcinoma identified in one lymph node (0/1).

COMMENTS:

The tumor is positive for cytokeratin 7 and TTF and negative fo

r cytokeratin 20 and p63. Supporting the diagno

sis of adenocarcinoma of the lung.
See

CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis: Right upper lobe lung mass, suspicious for carcinoma.
Postoperative Diagnosis:

Symptoms/Radiologic Findings:

SPECIMENS:

A. Right upper lobe lung mass

B. Station 10

C. Interlobar lymph node

D. Right paratracheal lymph node
E. Right upper lung lobe

F. Subcarinal lymph node

" GROSS DESCRIPTION: —
A. Container A is labeled #1'. Received for frozen section and subsequently placed in formalin are numerous fragments of yellow-tan soft tissue,
up to 0.7 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm. ine entire specimen is submitted in cassette Ai labeled

B. Container B is labeled: _ ‘station 10'. Received in formalin, is a 1.4 x 1.0 x 0.3 cm portion of anthracotic tissue. The entire specimen is sectioned
and submitted in cassette B1 labeled

C. Container C is labeled iterlobar lymph node’. Received in formalin, is a 1.4 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm anthracotic lymph node. The lymph node is
quadrisected and submitted in cassette C1 labeleu

D. Container D is labeled right paratracheal lymph node". Received in formalin are three anthracotic lymph nodes, ranging from 0.5 cm to 2.2 cm
in greatest dimensions. The entire specimen is submitted in cassettes labele: as follows: D1) intact smallest lymph node; D2-D3) each
with one sectioned lymph node in toto.

E. Container E is labelec ‘ight upper lung lobe’. Received in formalin is a 175 gram, 11.8 x 14.5 x 3.3 cm lobe of lung with a 12.5 cm long
stapled margin at one aspect. The staples are removed and the underlying parenchyma is inked black. The pleura is smooth and glistening, moderate 'y
violaceous and has been previously focally inked blue. Sectioning reveals a 4.5 x 3.0 x 2.5 cm tan-white, focally anthracotic tumor which extencs to
within 0.7 cm of the previously inked pleura, and 0.2 cm from the bronchial and vascular resection margins. The remaining lung is spongy, rec-tan
Renresentative sections are submitted for genomics studies in three cassettes labeled — Sections are submitted in cassettes labeled

ts follows: E1) bronchial resection margin; E2) vascular resection margin; E3-E6) tumor to inked pleura; E7-E8) representative remaining ‘ung

parenchyma.
F. Container F is labeled subcarinal lymph node’. Received in formalin are four nieces of anthracotic tissue ranging from 1.1 cm to 2.3 cm in
greatest dimensions. The entire specimen is submitted in cassettes labeled as follows: F1-F4) each with one sectioned lymph node in

ne CONSULTATION:

A. FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: Non-smail cell carcinoma per Dr. _ ee eee cee

a

ae

