SPECIMEN
    A. Level 12 lymph nodes
    B. Level 11 lymph nodes
    C. Level 10 lymph node
    D. Right upper lobe
    E. 2R lymph node
    F. 4R lymph node
    G. Level 7 lymph node
    H. Level 8 lymph node

CLINICAL NOTES
    PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS:   Lung nodule

GROSS DESCRIPTION
             A. [The specimen is] Received in formalin labeled "Level
             12 lymph nodes" and consists of a red and black piece of
    soft tissue measuring 1.2 cm. in greatest dimension. AS-1.
             B. Received unfixed labeled "Level 11 lymph nodes" and
             consists of a black and e piece of soft tissue measuring
    1.6 cm. in greatest dimension.    -
             C. Received unfixed la l     "Level 10 lymph node" and
             consists of portions of red and l k soft tissue measuring
    2 cm. in greatest aggregate dimension.    -
             D. The specimen is received un x , labeled "right upper
             lobe" and consists of a 192 gram lung lobe measuring 12.5 x
    9.5 x 3 cm. There is a contained roughly spherical mass that is
    subpleural and measures 2 cm. in diameter. A portion of the specimen
    is taken for research purposes. Sections after fixation.
             E. Received unfixed labeled "2R lymph node" and consists
             of three i es of yellow and red soft tissue measuring 2.5
    x 3.5 x 0.4 cm.    -
             F. Rece e unfixed labeled "4R lymph node" and consists
             of multiple pieces of pink and   a   soft tissue measuring
    1 cm. in greatest aggregate dimension.    -
            G. Received unfixed labeled "Le l     lymph node" and
             consists of a yellow and black piece of soft tissue
      a ring 2.4 x 1.7 x 0.3 cm. in greatest aggregate dimension.
      -
             H. Received unfixed labeled "Level 8 lymph node" and
             consists of portions of pink and black so     ssue
    measuring 1 cm. in greatest aggregate dimension.    -



MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
    A. A single lymph node is negative for malignancy
    B. A single lymph node is negative for malignancy
    C. No evidence of malignancy in multiple lymph nodes or lymph node
    pieces
    D.
             Tumor type: Adenocarcinoma
             Tumor grade: 2-3 out of 3
             Tumor size: 2 cm
             Bronchial resection margin: Negative for malignancy
             Pleura: Negative for malignancy
             Vascular invasion: Absent
             Attached lymph nodes: None
             pTNM Stage: T1
             Non-tumorous lung: Emphysema

   E. There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 3 lymph nodes
   F. A single lymph node is negative for malignancy
   G. A single lypmh node is negative for malignancy
   H. There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 4 lymph nodes

   4x2,3x6

DIAGNOSIS
    A. Lymph node, level XII, biopsy:
          A single lymph node is negative for malignancy.
    B. Lymph nodes, level XI, biopsy:
          A single lymph node is negative for malignancy.
    C. Lymph node, level X, biopsy:
          There is no evidence of malignancy in multiple lymph nodes or
          lymph node pieces.
    D. Lung, right upper lobe, resection:
          Moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma
    E. Lymph node, 2R, biopsy:
          There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 3 lymph nodes
    F. Lymph node, 4R, biopsy:
          A single lymph node is negative for malignancy.
    G. Lymph node, level VII, biopsy:
          A single lymph node is negative for malignancy
    H. Lymph node, level VIII, biopsy:
          There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 4 lymph nodes.




                       --- End Of Report ---