RIGHT UPPER

Clinical Details:
Right upper lobectomy for FNA Bx proven adenocarcinoma.

Two specimens received:

1: RIGHT UPPER LOBE

Macroscopy:
The specimen is labelled "right upper lobe" and consists of a lobe of lung measuring approximately
165 x 100 x 55 mm in the inflated state. There are two staple lines present on the medial aspect of the
specimen. Both of these are excised and the resultant margins inked with black ink. The lateral pleural
surface is puckered over an area measuring approximately 15 x 6 mm. On sectioning through the lung
parenchyma there is a firm cream nodule present deep to this puckering which measures 45 mm in
greatest dimension. This lesion appears to abut the overlying pleura and is 21 mm from the nearest
parenchymal resection margin. No endobronchial component of the lesion is identified
macroscopically. The adjacent lung parenchyma appears unremarkable. [RS taken through bronchial
and vascular resection margins-l A; peribronchial lymph node-IB; tumour with overlying pleural
surface IC-IE; parenchymal resection margin-IF; section through adjacent uninvolved lung-IG.]

Microscopy:
Sections show a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. The lesion is subpleural and the tumour
invades into but not through the visceral pleura. There is no blood vessel invasion and no lymphatic
permeation is seen. No perineural permeation is identified. The lesion is well clear of the bronchial
and the surgical resection margin. A peribronchial lymph node metastasis of adenocarcinoma is seen.
Abutting the carcinoma in block 1 F is a carcinoid tumourlet. The adjacent lung shows very mild
centriacinar emphysema. The bronchial resection margin shows mild active chronic inflammation and
squamous metaplasia.

2: HILAR LYMPH NODE

Macroscopy:
The specimen is labelled "hilar lymph node" and consists of two pieces of dark tan tissue measuring in
aggregate 16 x 8 x 3 mm. [BIT-2A.]

Microscopy:
Sections of the lymph nodes show reactive changes only. There is no evidence of malignancy.

Summary:
Right upper lobe lung and hilar lymph nodes:
I: Moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma; 45 mm in maximal dimension.
2: No blood vessel, lymphatic or perineural invasion present.
3: Visceral pleural invasion identified; clear of bronchial and surgical margin.
4: Peribronchial lymph node metastasis.
5: T2NIMX
6: Adjacent tumourlet.

T-28000 M-8I403 PI-03000