HISTORY
Tissue taken at lobectomy.

MACROSCOPIC
Two specimens received.

1: The specimen is labelled "right upper lobe" and consists of a right upper lobectomy which measures
140 x 120 x 50 mm in maximum dimension. Onpalpation there is a firm to hard mass located in the
apical segment, predominantly on the postsromedial aspect. The mass measures approximately 60 x 65
x 40 mm in maximum dimension. There is puckering of the overlying pieural surface at the apex. The
pleural surface on the medial aspect of the specimen has a fibrinous-type exudate. On sectioning there
is a solid lobulated tumour which has a yellow greyish-white cut surface. It, in places, has a villous-
like architecture. There is haemorrhage scattered throughout the tumour. The tumour appears to abut
the pleural surface. The tumour appears to lie at least 20 mm from the bronchial resection margin.
There is a soft tissue resection margin which has a row of staples and measures 85 mm in length. The
tumour is well clear of this. The surrounding adjacent uninvolved lung parenchyma has a colhipsed
appearance. [lA, bronchial resection margin; lB-F, tumour; 10, adjacent uninvolved lung
parenchyma; 1H, hilar lymph nodes].

2: The specimen is labelled "hilar lymph node" and consists of four irregular greyish-black pieces of
tissue which measure in aggregate 30 x 20 x 10 mm. [BIT, 2A].


MICROSCOPIC
1: Sections show a well differentiated adenocarcinoma. The tumour has a prominent
bronchioloalveolar component with a marked papillary pattern. The cells are tall and columnar with
variable cytoplasm ranging from non-mucinous to clear to mucinous. The lesion is subpleural but
definite pleural invasion is not identified. There is no blood vessel invasion and no lymphatic
permeation is seen. No perineural permeation is identified. The lesion is well clear ofthe bronchial
resection margin. Tumour appears to be present at a diathermied margin, possibly related to pleura in
block IF. It is difficult to know whether this represents a true margin. No lymph node metastases are
present. The adj acent lung shows evidence of emphysema. Within the random section of lung, there is
a localised area of necrosis with surrounding fibrosis. Special stains for microorganisms will be
performed.

2: Sections of the lymph nodes show reactive changes only. There is no evidence of malignancy.

SUMMARY
Right upper lobe lung and hilar lymph nodes:
1: Well differentiated adenocarcinoma; 65 mm in maximal dimension.
2: No blood vessel, lymphatic or perineural invasion present.
3: No pleural invasion identified; clear of bronchial margin but extends to an area of diathermy (see
report).
4: No lymph node metastases.
5: T2NOMX
6: Emphysema and necrotic lesion; special stains for microorganisms being performed.




SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT
No micro-organisms are identified within the lung granuloma with special




T-28000 M-81403 PI-03000