UUID:A6FC7AD1- BEAE - 486C - A71C-CBDC7CD58968
              TCGA-L4-A4E5-01A- PR                  Redacted
      III UIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII1111111IIIII IIII
Awl   III IIIIIIIIIIII^IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIII
      ^^^ 111111111111111111111111 1111111111 MINE III IIII
          Patient:                                                                                         Pathology #:
          Med. Record. No.,                                                  Age.:                         Date of Procedure:
          Date of Birth:                                                     sex.      M                   Date Received:
          Submitted by,
          Report also to

                                                                                 Pathology Report
                                                                                                                 ^ C6-o-3
                                                                                                        Qo(^wo CAA r ,
                                                                                                                            1              , N 0s
        DIAGNOSIS                                                                                                                    CPO

              SPECIMEN
                 Specimen type;     Wedge excision (Part A) and right upper lobectomy (Part B)
                 Tumor site:. Right upper lobe
                 Additional tumor location info: Subpleura
              TUMOR
                Histologic type:    Adenocarcinorna
                Histologic grade :   Poorly differentiated (G3: of 4)
                Tumor size:      2cm
                Tumor focality:    Unifocal
                    Di"rect extension of tumor: No invasion of visceral pleura or adjacent structures
                    Tumor-associated atelectasis /obstructive pneumonitis:   Absent
                    Lymphovascular space. invasion;.    Venous invasion
                    Additional findings:                     None
              MARGINS
                All margins negative for carcinoma
                    Distance to nearest margin,   4.5cm
                    Nearest. margin:   Bronchial margin
              LYMPH NODES
                All.sampled lymph nodes are benign
                    Number of nodes evaluated:   6
              STAGING (AJCC)
                Primary Tumor:                        pT1
                Lymph. Nodes:                        pNO

                                                                                                                  riteria
                                                                                                                  ia=nosis Dis.repancy
                                                                                                                  i unary Tumor Site Discrepancy
                                                                                                                  IPAA Discrepancy
                                                                                                                  rior Malignancy History
                                                                                                                  val/Synchronous Primary
                                                                                                                  ase is circle):           QUALIFIED      /   DISQUALIFIED
                                                                                                                  eviewer Initials                      eviewed:




                                                                                     Pathology Report
                                                                                                                                                                   Page 1 of 3
 Patient:
             44000000
CLINICAL INFORMATION:
Right upper lobe lung mass,

SPECIMEN(S) RECEIVED:
X. Right upper lobe mass
B. Additional right upper lobe for margins

GROSS DESCRIPTION-
A. Received fresh is a 10.5 x 5.5:x 3,5 cm wedge resection of lung. A staple tine indicates the resection margin.
The pleural surface, smooth and pale tan-red, shows minimal anthracotic stippling. Located approximately 2 cm
from the staple line is a 1.0x 0.8 cm area of pleural puckering. Beneath the pleura is an ill-circumscribed mass
measuring approximately 2.. 0 x 1.8 x 1.2 cm. The periphery of the mass is. firm and gray, and the center is
cavitated, No additional masses are identified throughout the remaining parenchyma. Intraoperative touch
preparations are prepared. A small portion of the mass, as well as normal lung, is obtained for the
                     T'iree.sections of the mass with overlying. pleura (inked black) are submitted in Al-A3.

INTRAOPERATIVE TOUCH PREP DIAGNOSIS: Non-small cell carcinoma.

B. Received fresh is a 106 gram, 17 x 8.0 x 5.4 cm lobe of lung. The pleura exhibits minimal to moderate
anthracotic.stippling. Towards the center of the resection is a 9.0 x 5.5 cm defect in the pleura; representing the
prior wedge resection. The edges of the pleural defect are 1.5 cm or greater from the staple: liner Sections of the
lung reveal a spongy tan-red parenchyma with no additional masses. Near the bronchial margin (which. is 2.5 cm
or greater from the staple line) are several small anthracotic Lymph nodes: The bronchial margin is submitted for
frozen section in B1, representative sections of lung parenchyma in B2 and $3, and lymph nodes. in B4.

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: Bronchial margin negative for malignancy. Reported to



Immu.nohistochemistryr Results
Forrnalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue is utilized. Tissue sections are incubated with. the following antibodies: Positive and
negative controls stain appropriately. Complete procedural methodology is available upon request Results indicated below

Material ;. Block Al


          Marker For.                               Result                          Comment
          TTF-1                                     Positive
           63                                          g
                                                    Ne ative




Nnre 77NO norfnrrnanra ,-hararl,ari.at;e Of all innmunohistochernicaf stares cited in this report were determined by the. Department of Pathology at
                                         3s part of an ongoing quality assurance program and in compliance with federally mandated regulations
;.awry corn me +,i'ncar LeuQrerary rrrrprov6r ent Amendments of ?988. (CLJA '88). Some of these tests may rely on the use of "analyte specific
reagents " and have not been cleared or approved by the U. S. Food and Drug Administration The FDA has determined that such clearance or
approval rs not necessary Nevertheles& federal rules concerning the medical use of analyte specific reagents require that the following
disclaimer be attached to this report. These tests are 'ised for crustcn1 punt. .cn, and should not be regarded as.investigational or for research
The imrnurioMistochemistryy laboratory at                                          Department. of Pathology is certified by the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services (formerly HCFA) as a rngn complexity ,aooratory under CL1A 88




 Slides were microscopically examined by the pathologist:



                                                                Pathology Report
                                                                                                                                      Page 2at3
 Patient:
                  00"rJow
Evaluation erforcned by

Electronically signec




                            Pathology Report.
                                                Page 3 of 3