HISTORY
 Left lower lobe and node biopsy. Lung Ca.
 Lingular node, No. 11 node, segment oflawer lobe.

 MACROSCOPIC
 Four specimens received.

 I: The specimen is labelled "left lower lobe" and consists of a left lower lobe which measures
 approximately 120 x 130 x 100 mm in maximum dimension. On palpation of the lower zone of the
 lobe there is a firm to hard mass which has caused some puckering of the pleural surface of the base of
 the lobe. The pleural surface surrounding the rest of this firm to hard area has a pale brown, slightly
 nodular, appearance compared to the normal appearing pleura. On sectioning there is a well-defmed
 greyish-brovvn solid mass which has a mucoid cut surface. It measures 75 x 60 nun in maximum
 dimension. The tumour appears well clear of the bronchial resection margin by at least 40 mm.
 Distant lung parenchyma has acollapsed mottled pinkish-grey appearance. [lA, bronchial resection
 margin; IB, hilar lymph nodes; lC-F, tumour with nearest pleural surface; IG-H, tumour with pleural
                         ovc,lv"d lung parenchyma].


 2: The specimen is labelled with patient's details only and consists of an irregular portion oflung, 33 x
 25 x 22 mm, bearing a stapled margin, 30 mm in length. The remainder of the specimen is largely
 covered by pleura, but on the opposite side to the stapled margin, there is a "bare area" approximately
 30 xIS mm. The stapled resection margin has been removed and the bare areas inked. Serial parallel
 slicing reveals lung parenchyma in which' there is evidence of emphysema but no mass lesions are
 identified and there is no definite evidence of fibrosis. [3 representative TS, 2A-B].

 3: The specimen is labelled "lingular node" and consists of three fragments of firm cream and grey
 tissue ranging from 4-11 mm in greatest diameter. [Wrapped and blocked in toto, 3A].

4: The specimen is labelled "No. II lymph node" and consists of three portions of firm grey and cream
tissue ranging from 2 mm in diameter to IS x lOx 5 mm. [The largest specimen is bisected
_ _ all tissue wrapped and BIT, 4A].


  MICROSCOPY
  1: Sections show a well differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma. The lesion is subpleural but definite
  pleural invasion is not identified. Special stains are being performed to confrrm this. There is no blood
  vessel invasion and no lymphatic penneation is seen. No perineural permeation is identified. The
  lesion is clear of the bronchial resection margin but there is squamous metaplasia and severe dysplasia
  at the resection margin. Hilar lymph node metastases of adenocarcinoma are seen. The lung away
  from the tumour shows evidence of centriacinar emphysema.

  2: Sections show marked centriacinar emphysema. Around some bronchovascular bundles, there is a
  mild chronic inflammatory cell infiltrate including lymphoid follicles. There is no evidence of
  squamous metaplasia, dysplasia or malignancy.

  3: Sections of the lymph node show scattered deposits of metastatic mucinous adenocarcinoma.

  4: Sections of the lymph node show scattered deposits of metastatic mucinous adenocarcinoma.

  SUMMARY
  Left lower lobe lung and lymph nodes:
  I: Well differentiated adenocarcinoma; 75 rum in maximal dimension.
  2: No blood vessel, lymphatic or perineural invasion seen.
  3: Na pleural invasion identified; clear of bronchial margin.
  4: Hilar, lingular and No 11 lymph node metastases.
  5: T2NIMX
  6: Squamous metaplasia and severe dysplasia at bronchial resection margin.
  7: No involvement of separate piece of lung; centriacinar emphysema present
Note this is an amended report.




SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT
There is no invasion of the visceral pleura with elastin stains,




T-28000 M-81403 Pl-03000