SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:

P ROCEDU R E   DAiT.E.:••R.E.CEIVE D DATE:      REPORT DATE: _ _



COPY TO:



10 Consultation
FS DIAGNOSI
patient ID)" by
                  ':-.-··-1· ed to
                             ampus
                                                 _POSitiVe


Pre-Op Diagnosis
Right lung mass
Post-Op Diagnosis
Same as above
Clinical History
Nothing indicated
Gross Description :
Four parts

Container labeled                                    node" has 1 .6 x
1.0 x 0.5 cm of g                                  with multiple
staples. The tissue away from the staples is submitted in a single
cassette.

Container l a b e l e d _ y m P h node" has 2 .0 x
1 .6 x 0.9 cm of lobu a e 0 s aggy an- gray 0 yellow fibroadipose
tissue fragments which are entirely submitted in a single cassette.

Container labele~ right upper lobe lung" has a
231 gram previo~ed portion of recognizable
pulmonary parenchyma received after tissue harvest for genomic
study . The specimen appears grossly consistent with right upper lobe
of lung measuring on reconstruction 18.2 x 13.4 x 5 .7 cm. The margin
of resection is the bifurcation of the tertiary bronchi. Adjacent to
the bronchial margin is 1 .6 cm gray-black fleshy nodule with a
fleshy gray-black cut surface . The pleura is wrinkled mottled
gray-tan to pink with moderate anthracotic streaking . Noted on the
posterior aspect at a point 3 .5 cm from the apex there is a 4 .6 x
3.5 cm area of indurated pleural umbilication . The specimen is
sectioned within this region to reveal a well defined 7 .8 x 6 .2 x
4.6 cm lobulated tan-gray gritty fibrotic nodule with a gritty
gray-tan necrotic fibrotic cut surface. This is seen at its nearest
point 3 .5 cm from the nearest bronchial margin. An apparent
bronchial connection is identified. The bronch ial margin is shaved
and submitted for frozen section which is reportedlill"      0 neoplasm
(reported to                    positive patient 10)" by          On
sectioning, the lesion grossly extends to but not th               leura
on the posterior aspect. On sectioning , the remaining parenchyma
reveals crepitant gray-tan to pink moderately anthracotic streaked
parenchyma without additional gross lesions. Noted on the lateral
pleura is a 0 .5 x 0.4 x 0 . 1 cm deep brown to black plaque. Also
                                    are three tissue cassettes each
                                     Representative sections are submitted
labeled as                        section residue; B - peribronchial
nodule bisected; C-G - lesion and surrounding tissue; H - pleural
with lateral plaque ; I - remaining uninvolved parenchyma.

Container labeled                                  lymph node" has a 2.4
x 1 .7 x 0 .6 cm irregular portion of gray-tan to yellow




-
fibroadipose-appearing tissue which is bisected and entirely
submitted in a single cassette.



Microscopic Description:
Sections of the first specimen identified as a level 10 Ivmoh
~her identified as specimen #1 from the patient
                                                               Wille
~re examined . These show portions of lymph node and fibrous
tissue . The lymph node shows focal germinal center formation .
There are h istiocytes present within the sinusoids focally.
Immunohistochemical stains are performed to verify that these are
histiocytes. The cells in question are positive for CD68 and
negative for AE1/AE3 . The control slides stain appropriately.
Additionally , special stains for acid fast bacilli and fungi are
perfonmed on this material. No organisms are seen in these
preparations. The control slides stain appropriately.

Sections of the second specimen identified as level 7 lymph node
show fragments of lymph node and fibroadipose tissue. The lymph node
tissue shows germinal center formation. No areas of metastatic
carcinoma are seen .

Sections of the third specimen from the right upper lobe of the lung
show the bronchial margin to be histologically unremarkable.
Sections of a peribronchial lymph node show portions of a lymph node
with small germinal center formation and numerous pigment containing
histiocytes. No areas of metastatic carcinoma are seen. An
additional peribronchial lymph node is seen in one of the tissue
sections of the lung. No areas of carcinoma are seen in this lymph
node as well . The large neoplasm is composed of sheets of cells
that have abundant slightly granular cytoplasm and enlarged ,
markedly pleomorphic irregular nuclei with ' prominent nucleoli.
Focal areas of necrosis are seen. The neoplasm e x tends to the
pleura in one area . The pleura has been marked with India ink and
in this one particular area, the neoplasm is covered by ink. There
is no extension beyond the pleura seen in this area. Sections of
uninvolved lung show dilated air spaces from broken alveolar walls.
The broken alveolar walls show some fibrous clubbing .

Sections of the four specimen identified as the level 4 right lymph
node show portions of an unremarkable lymph node with no areas of
metastatic carcinoma.

Final Diagnosis
Lymph node, level 10, excision:
 No metastatic carcinoma present.
 Reactive hyperplasia with chronic inflammation .
 No organisms seen on special stains, diagnosis confirmed by
immunohistochemical stains.
Lymph node, level 7, excision:
 No metastatic carcinoma present .
 Mild reactive hyperplasia.
Lymph node, level 4 right, excision:
 No metastatic carcinoma present.
 Mild reactive hyperplasia.
Lung, right upper lobe, lobectomy:
 Tumor characteristics:
 Histologic type: Poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma.
 Grade: 3
 Tumor site: Right upper lobe.
 Specimen integrity: Specimen intact.
 Tumor focality: Unifocal.
 Tumor size: 7.8 x 6.2 x 4.6 cm.
 Visceral pleural invasion: Present, no extension beyond pleura
    identified histologically.
 Lymphovascular space invasion: No.
 Treatment effect: Not applicable.
 Surgical margin status :
  Tumor distance from closest bronchial margin : 3.5 cm .
  Tumor d istance from pleural space: Neoplasm involves visceral
    peritoneum.
 Lymph node status:
  Total number of lymph nodes received: 5 (three as stated above
    and two peribronchial lymph nodes within the specimen).
  Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: 0
 Other:
  Moderate pulmonary emphysema.




                                                X2_
  Diagnosis of adenocarcinoma confirmed by immunohistochemical
    stains. PAS 9

Stage: pT3NO

CPT: 88331,88305 x3 , 88309, 88342 x6, 88313

Comments
The permanent section diagnosis confirms the frozen section
diagnosis.

This report has been finalized at the

This test was _ o r m a n c e characteristics
determined by                          aboratory. It has not been
cleared or approve      y    e . . ood and ·Drug Administration. The
FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary.
 This test is used for clinical purposes. It should not be regarded
as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified
under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments o f _
~~~~~as qualified to perform high complexity clinical
laboratory testing .