SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:

PROCEDURE DATE: RECEIVED DATE:
TSS

Pre-Op Diagnosis
Lung nodule
Post-Op Diagnosis
Same as above
Clinical History
Nothing indicated
Gross Description:
Four parts

report cate

Container tabelec ME - level 10 lymph node” has 2.0 x
1.0 x 0.4 cm of shaggy gray-pink to brown-black focally
nodular-appearing, focally fleshy tissue fragments with staple lines
in place. As much tissue as possible away from the staple line is

submitted in a single cassette.

Container labeled EN right !ung upper lobe” has a
previously partially sectioned recognizable portion of pulmonary
parenchyma consistent with right upper lobe. The specimen is
received after tissue harvest for genomic study. Within the specimen
ee

container are two cassettes labeled "

' The specimen

weighs 150 grams and measures 14.7 x 9.6 x 2.8 cm. The margin of
resection is the stapled tertiary bronchi surrounded by a few
gray-black fleshy nodules up to 1.0 cm. The pleura is smooth and
tan-pink with moderate anthracotic streaking. Noted on the medial
aspect of the apex is a previously sectioned 2.0x15x1.5cm area
of slightly indurated umbilication. This is sectioned beneath this
region to reveal a poorly defined consolidated gray-tan plaque-like
lesion measuring 1.7 x 1.6 x 0.9 cm. This has a slightly
chalky-appearing tan-gray to pink cut surface. This is noted at its
nearest point 4.8 cm from the bronchial margin. A discrete gross
bronchial connection is not identified. The lesion extends grossly

to but not through the pleura. Sectioning the remaining parenchyma

reveals it to be spongy tan-pink with focal anthracotic streaking.
No additional gross lesions are identified. Representative sections
are submitted labeled as follows: A - shaved bronchial margin and
peribronchial nodules; B-E - remaining lesion and surrounding
tissue; F - random uninvolved parenchyma.

Container labeled Fd level 9 lymph node" has a 1.0 x
0.7 x 0.6 cm nodular portion of gray-pink to brown-black tissue
which is bisected and entirely submitted in a single cassette.

Container labeled FS ievel 11 lymph node" has a 1.7 x
0.8 x 0.4 cm shaggy lobulated portion of gray-pink to brown-black
tissue with focal staples in place. The specimen is entirely
submitted in a single cassette.

Microscopic Description:
Reviewed are slides labetec inn
Final Diagnosis
Lymph node, level 10:
Multiple fragments of benign lymph node with focal calcification;
no carcinoma identified in
sections examined.
Lung, right upper lobe, lobectomy:
Tumor characteristics:
Specimen integrity: Intact.
Specimen laterality: Right upper lobe.
Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.
Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated.
Tumor site: Medial aspect of apex, right upper lobe.
Tumor focality: Unifocai-
Tumor size: 2.0x 1.5 x 1.5 cm.
Visceral pleural invasion: Not identified (see comment).
Lymphovascular space invasion: No unequivocal lymphovascular space
invasion identified in
sections examined.
Tumor extension: Tumor confined to lung parenchyma.
Treatment effect: Not identified.
Surgical margin status:
Tumor distance from bronchial margin: 4.8 cm.
Tumor distance from pleural surface: Less than 1 mm (see comment).

Lymph node status:

Three peribronchial lymph nodes negative for malignancy (0/3).
See also parts 1, 3 and 4.

Other:

Emphysematous change.

pTN stage: pl ia NO
Lymph node, level 9:

One benign lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/1).
Lymph node, level 11:

One benign lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/1).
Calcified granulomata.

No acid fast or fungal organisms identified by AFB or GMS stains

(with working controls).
Comments

Histologic sections demonstrate a well to moderately differentiated
adenocarcinoma that in areas demonstrates features of
bronchoalveolar carcinoma. However, evidence of desmoplastic
fibrosis and invasion of this stroma suggests this is better

classified as an adenocarcinoma, not otherwise specified. The lesion
extends close to, and in many areas abuts, the elastic layer of the
visceral pleura; however, definitive extension into this elastic

layer is not identified on H and E stained slides. Clinical

correlation is recommended.

At the request of the undersigned pathologist, these slides have
been additionally reviewed by Dr. SEES who concurs with the
diagnosis.

This test has been finalized at the RE ances.

