SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT



De-Identified Specimen C o d e : _

Patient Age/Sex

SPECIMEN SUBMITTED:
Part A: L4
Part B: 7
Part C: 4R
Part 0: 3
Part E: 2R
Part F: 2L
Part G: CHEST WALL MASS
Part H: BRONCHIAL MARGIN
Part I: LEVEL 10
Part J: LEVEL 11
Part K: R11 POSTERIOR

Final Diagnosis
1. L4, lymph node, excision (A) - One lymph node negative for malignancy.

2. 7, lymph node, excision (8) - One lymph node negative for malignancy.

3. 4R, lymph node, excision (C) - One lymph node negative for malignancy.

4. 3, lymph node, excision (0) - One lymph node negative for malignancy.

5. 2R, lymph node, excision (E) - One lymph node negative for malignancy.

6. 2L, lymph node, excision (F) - One lymph node negative for malignancy.

7. Chest wall, partial excision (G) - One lymph node negative for malignancy.
- Unremarkable fibroadipose tissue.

8. Right upper lobe, lobectomy (H) - Invasive adenocarcinoma, acinar type.
- Surgical margins negative for neoplasm.
- Two lymph nodes negative for carcinoma.
- Emphysematous changes.

9. Level 10, lymph node, biopsy (I) - One lymph node negative for neoplasm.

10. Level 11, lymph node, excision (J) - One lymph node negative for neoplasm.

11. R11 posterior, lymph node, excision (K) - One lymph node negative for neoplasm.



                                                                                      Page 1 of 4
                                     SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis Comment:
Tumor Location: Right upper lobe

Tumor Size: 3.2 x 3.1 x 2.1 cm

Vascular Invasion: Not identified

Lymphatic Invasion: Not identified

Bronchial Margin: Negative

Vascular Margin: Negative

Parenchymal Margins: Negative

Pleura/Soft Tissue Margin: Negative

Pathologic Stage (AJCC): pT2a pNO pMX Stage 1b

Intraoperative Diagnosis:
 A. Negative for neoplasm

 B. Negative for neoplasm

C. Negative for neoplasm

D. Negative for neoplasm

E. Negative for neoplasm.

F. Negative for neoplasm

G. Negative for neoplasm.

H. Negative for tumor

Clinical Diagnosis:
LUNG CA




                                                                 Page 2 of 4
                                   SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Gross Description:
A. Received fresh at the frozen desk labeled "L4" is a 0.2 x 0.1 x 0.1 cm tan-red soft tissue fragment.
The specimen is totally submitted for frozen section in one cassette labeled Ai.

B. Received fresh at the frozen desk labeled "7" are multiple fragments of tan-brown soft tissue
measuring 1.7 x 0.7 x 0.2 cm in aggregate. The specimen is totally submitted for frozen section in one
cassette labeled B1.

C. Received fresh at the frozen desk labeled "4R" are multiple fragments of tan-brown soft tissue
measuring in aggregate 1 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is totally submitted for frozen section in one
cassette labeled C 1.

O. Received fresh at the frozen desk labeled "3" are multiple fragments of tan-brown soft tissue
measuring 2.2 x 2 x 0.4 cm in aggregate. The specimen is totally submitted in two cassettes labeled
01-02.

E. Received fresh at the frozen desk labeled "2R" is a single tan-pink soft tissue fragment measuring
0.7 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is totally submitted for frozen section in one cassette labeled E1.

F. Received fresh at the frozen desk labeled "2L" are two fragments of yellow-tan soft tissue measuring




-
0.6 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is totally submitted for frozen section in one cassette labeled F1.




G. Received fresh at the frozen desk labeled "chest wall mass" is a single segment of yellow-tan soft
tissue measuring 1.5 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is bisected and totally submitted for frozen section




-
in one cassette labeled G1.




 H. Received fixed in formalin is a specimen labeled "bronchial margin." The specimen consists of a right
upper lobectomy specimen (15 x 11 x 3 cm; 199 grams) and bronchial remnant (1.1 cm in length and
0.9 cm in diameter). At the apex, there is a poorly circumscribed stellate firm gray-white tumor (3.2 x
3.1 x 2.1 cm) with central necrosis that is 4 cm from the bronchial margin and 2.5 cm from the
parenchymal margin. The tumor causes retraction of the overlying pleura but does not grossly invade
the pleura, which has a smooth glistening surface. Also in the apical portion of the specimen is a
separate nodule (1 x 0.6 x 0.5 cm) that is 5 cm from the primary mass and adjacent to the pleura. This
second small nodule is tan with central hemorrhage. The remainder of the lung demonstrates severe
emphysematous changes, mostly in the upper portion. Two anthracotic peribronchial lymph nodes are
seen, the larger measuring O.B cm in greatest dimension. Representative sections are submitted as
follows: FSH1 bronchial margin; H2 vascular margins; H3 tumor with overlying pleura (blue); H4-H5
tumor; H6 parenchymal margin (orange); H7-HB separate nodule; H9 non-tumoral lung; Hi0 lymph




-
nodes.




I. Received fresh on Telfa gauze labeled "level 10" is a single anthracotic nodule with minimal attached
tissue measuring 1.4 x O.B x 0.5 cm. The specimen is totally submitted in one cassette.

                                                                                                      Page 3 of 4
                                  SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Gross Description:

J. Received fresh on Telfa gauze labeled "level 11" is one anthracotic nodule measuring 1.5 x 1.2 x 0.8
cm. The specimen is totally submitted in one cassette.

K. Received fresh on Telia gauze labeled "right 11 posterior" is one anthracotic nodule measuring 1.0 x




-
0.5 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is totally submitted in one cassette.




                                                                                                   Page 4 of 4