CGA-64—-1676

Clinical History/Diagnosis: Right Lung CA

Source of Specimen(s):

: bx @ 42 cm

: bx @ 40 cm

: bx @ 34 cm

: Portion of right 6th nb
: Lymph Node, level 9

: Lymph Node, level 11
: Rt, lower lobe

: Lymph Node, level 8

: Lymph Node, level 10
10; Lymph Node, 4R

11: Lymph Node, level 7

OOO I A OA BW ND ee

Gross Description:
Received in eleven parts.
Source of Tissue: 1. Labeled #1, "biopsy at 42 cm"

Gross Description: Received fresh with patient name and medical record
number labeled "biopsy at 42 cm" is a 0.3 cm light-tan irregular soft
tissue fragment which is submitted in toto in one block.

Designation of Sections: Block 1}

Summary of Sections: undesignated-]
2K 9K 2s a EO aie 2 OC 2s Oe of of ig fe oft 2 fe 2k 26 2 safe 0k ys oc 2k eof ake ie oe os ie ae oe oe ie a OK ie OK oi 2 eK Os OE ie oe OR eo OK os oe oO OR

Source of Tissue: 2. Labeled #2, "biopsy at 40 cm"

Gross Description: Received fresh with patient name and medical record
number labeled "biopsy at 40 cm" are two light-tan irregular soft tissue
fragments, 0.2 cm in greatest dimension. They are submitted in total in one
block,

Designation of Sections: Block 2

Summary of Sections: undesignated-2
BOG Gao a oo do ok sok ogg a kok ik koko a a kk oo ak
ne ean

Source of Tissue: 3. Labeled #3, "biopsy at 34 cm"

Gross Description: Received fresh with patient name and medical record

number labeled "biopsy at 34 cm" is a 0.4 cm light-tan irregular soft
tissue fragment which is submitted in toto in one block.

Designation of Sections: Block 3

Summary of Sections: undesignated-1
HSK oo RO OR A OR a SH a I HR HR a oR RR OH RR A AR ROKR RRR a a a aR aR aR oR oR a aR aR ob CR aR RR ook

Source of Tissue: 4, Labeled #4, "portion of right 6th rib"

Gross Description: Received fresh with patient name and medical record
number labeled "portion of right 6th rib” is a 2.0 cm in length tan
fragment of rib having a moderate amount of attached soft tissue and
muscle. A representative section is submitted in one block, following
decalcification.

Designation of Sections: Block 4

Summary of Sections: undesignated-1
FOR ion ono doo ook loi oi doi Gog ai ak ak ak kok ok ok kok ak ok kak ok ok eck dieok ge ok oko kok ok ok

Source of Tissue: 5, Labeled #5, "level 9 lymph node"

Gross Description: Received fresh with patient name and medical record
number labeled "level 9 lymph node" is a 1.0 cm in greatest dimension
gray-black anthracotic stained lymph node, which is submitted in toto in
one block.

Designation of Sections: Block 5

Summary of Sections: undesignated-]
HOEK ROR a OC aR oR OR oR a Se Re 2 OR A OR oe oe oe a a a oR oe oe a oo oR a a oR oR aOR ak aR oo ak aR oR oo RoR aK OK

Source of Tissue: 6. Labeled #6, "level 11 lymph node"
Gross Description: Recetved fresh with patient name and medical record
number labeled "level 11 lymph node" are 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.4 cm of gray-black

anthracotic stained tissue fragments which are entirely submitted in one
block.

Designation of Sections: Block 6

Summary of Sections: undesignated-multiple

Source of Tissue: 7. Labeled #7, "right lower lobe"

Frozen Section Diagnosis: 7FS- BRONCHIAL MARGIN WITH NO TUMOR.

Gross Description: Received fresh for frozen section evaluation with
patient name and medical record number labeled "right lower lobe" is a 296
pram, 18.0 x 12.5 x 4.5 cm right lower lobectomy of lung. It is covered by
a tan-pink to red-purple focally anthracotic stained pleura having up to

0.5 cm of attached bronchus. The bronchial resection margin is submitted
for frozen section evaluation and the frozen section residue is submitted

in one block. Adjacent to the bronchus, in the superior aspect of the
specimen there is a 2.5 x 2,0 x 2.0 cm firm mass having tan cut surfaces
with irregular borders. The remaining cut surfaces of lung range from
areas which are tan-pink and crepitant to areas which are red-purple, soft
and glistening. There are few palpable peribronchial lymph nodes, 0.8 cm
in greatest dimension. The cut surface of each is gray-black and
anthracotic stained. Representative sections are submitted in eight

blocks.

Designation of Sections: 7FS- frozen section bronchial resection margin,
7A- vascular margins, 7B-7F- mass, 7G- random Jung sections, 7H-

peribronchial lymph nodes

Summary of Sections: multiple

Source of Tissue: 8. Labeled #8, "level 8 lymph node”

Gross Description: Received fresh with patient name and medical record
number labeled "level 8 lymph node" is a 0.8 cm tan-pink fragment of soft
tissue which is submitted in toto in one block.

Designation of Sections: Block 8

Summary of Sections: undesignated-1]

Source of Tissue: 9, Labeled #9, "level 10 lymph node"

Gross Description: Received fresh with patient name and medical record
number labeled "Jevel 10 lymph node" are two gray-black anthracotic
stained tissue fragments, 0.8 cm in greatest dimension. They are submitted
in toto in one block.

Designation of Sections: Block 9

Summary of Sections: undesignated-2

Source of Tissue: 10, Labeled #10, "4R lymph node"

Gross Description: Received fresh with patient name and medical record
number labeled "4R lymph node" are 2.0 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm of yellow-tan
focally anthracotic stained fragments of fibroadipose tissue. They are
entirely submitted in one block.

Designation of Sections: Block 10

Summary of Sections: undesignated-multiple
FOR ook kk a OR a ok a dk kik oka kok a a ak a a oko

Source of Tissue: 11. Labeled #11, "level 7 lymph node"

Gross Description: Received fresh with patient name and medical record
number labeled "level 7 lymph node" are two gray-black anthracotic stained
tissue fragments, 1.5 cm in greatest dimension. They are entirely

submitted in two blocks.

Designation of Sections: 11A-11B

Summary of Sections: multiple
BI SIOI IO i a lock an CA IOI IG ICO ISR IOI RSS ICI RAO ACI ROI RC aOR ACR ICR ICR of ak ca 9 ak fae

t

a
=

Final Diagnosis: Dey
1) 42 cm, site unspecified (biopsy):
-Fragments of squamous mucosa with no specific pathologic abnormality.
-No tumor seen,

2) 40 cm, site unspecified (biopsy):
-Fragments of squamous mucosa with no specific pathologic abnormality.
-No tumor seen.

3) 34 cm, site unspecified (biopsy):
-Fragments of squamous mucosa with no specific pathologic abnormality.
-No tumor seen.

4) Right sixth rib (excision):
-~Unremarkable rib and marrow.
-No tumor seen.

5) Lymph node, level 9 (excision):
-One lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/1).

6) Lymph nodes, level 11 (excision):
-Ten lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/10).

7) Gow right lower, lobé (lobectomy):

-Poordifferentiated non-small cell carcinoma (2.5 cm gross
measurement).

-The centrally located tumor has a predominately solid architectural
pattern and abundant areas of necrosis.

-No angiolymphatic space invasion is identified.

-The visceral pleura is negative for tumor.

-The bronchial and vascular margins are negative for tumor.

-Five peribronchial and one intrapulmonary lymph node are negative for

metastatic carcinoma (0/6).

8) Lymph node, level 8 (excision):
-One lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/1).

9) Lymph nodes, level 10 (excision):
-Two lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/2).

10) Lymph nodes, level 4R (excision):
-S1x lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/6).

11) Lymph nodes, level 7 (excision):
-Four lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/4).

-pTl NOMX
