FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

                                                Diagnosis:

     A. LUNG, RIGHT UPPER LOBE, WEDGE EXCISION:
        - ADENOCARCINOMA, SEE COMMENT.

     B. PLEURA, BIOPSY:
        - ADENOCARCINOMA, SEE COMMENT.

 C. LUNG, RIGHT LOWER LOBE, WEDGE EXCISION:
    - ADENOCARCINOMA, SEE COMMENT.

 D. PLEURA, BIOPSY:
    - ADENOCARICNOMA, SEE COMMENT.

COMMENT (Parts A-D): Sections show a histologically similar moderately differentiated
adenocarcinoma in all specimens. Immunohistochemistry was performed on part A
and shows the tumor cells to be positive for TTF-1, CK7, Napsin-A, MOC-31 and ER (rare
positive), and negativE~ for calretinin, CDX2, CK20, CK 5/6, GCDFP-15, mammaglobin, p63,
PAX-B, vilin and S-100. The histomorphology and immunohistochemistry staining
 •              •       " •   •   1-   •••••
                                               ary adenocarcinoma. Results discussed with Dr.




Source of Specimen:
A. Lung ;Wedge Excision Rigllt Upper Lobe
B. Pleural
c.
                                     FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT


Clinical History/Operative Ox:
Right lung nodule

Intraoperative Diagnosis:
A. Right lung nodule: Non-small cell carcinoma.
B. Pleural biopsy: Poorly dlrrp,rprlTl"'TPn ,...<:>,",...,r,n""'<l                         rnr'Qt<:>t'nn(s)
was/were performed and rendered at

Gross Description:
A. Part A is labeled wedge excision right upper lobe for frozen section . Received in the fresh state for
frozen section analysis is a 3.5 x 2.2 x 1.0 cm wedge of lung . The pleura is glistening , light pink and tan.
Numerous surgical staples are present along one periphery, involving approximately 4 mm of lung tissue,
now trimmed and the resulting margin marked black. The specimen is serially sectioned demonstrating a
partially circumscribed, yellow-gray nodule, 1.2 x 1.1 x 1.0 cm , grossly within 0.2 cm of the margin now
marked black. Representative sections are submitted for frozen section analysis and the residual frozen
tissue submitted in A 1 for permanent sections. The lesion appears to abut the overlying pleura. The
adjacent lung parenchyma is spongy, light pink and tan. The remainder of the specimen is submitted for
microscopic evaluation , excluding the remnant involved with surgical staples.




-
Cassette summary: A 1) frozen section tumor nodule, A2) remainder of wedge including lesion submitted.


B. Part B is labeled pleural biopsy. Received in the fresh state for frozen section analysis are two pieces of
flimsy to rubbery, pink and tan soft tissue, measuring in aggregate 1.8 x 1.3 x 0.3 cm . The tissue is entirely
submitted for frozen section analysis, the residual frozen tissue entirely submitted in B1 for permanent
section~

C. Part C is labeled excision right lower lobe. Received in formalin is a wedge of lung, 3.3 x 1.3 x 0.5 cm
and less than 1 gram. The pleura is glistening , light tan and congested purple-tan. A palpable area of
nodularity is noted along the mid pleural surface. The surgical staples involve approximately 5 mm of
lung tissue, now trimmed, and the resulting margin is marked black. The specimen is serially sectioned
through the margin now marked black to reveal two circumscribed, bluish-gray areas of fibrous appearing
noduiarittJL5 cm and 0.4 cm each . The specimen is entirely submitted for microscopic evaluation in C1
andC2 .•

o. Part 0 is labeled pleural biopsy. Received in formalin are two soft to rubbery, triangular fragments of
light gray-tan fibrous ~ing soft tissue, 0.6 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm and 2.3 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm each. Both fragments
are submitted in 01 . _

Microscopic Description:
                           FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

A. Microscopic sections have been examined . The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered . Immunohistochemistry was performed with adequate control for Calretinin, CDX-2, CK7, CK20,
CK5/6, ER, GCDFP-15, mammoglobin, MOC-31 , Napsin-A, p63, PAX-S, S100, TTF-1, and Villin .

B. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered . Sections show an adenocarcinoma histologically similar to that seen in part A.

C. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered . Sections show an adenocarcinoma histologically similar to that seen in part A.

D. Microscopic sections have been examined . The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered. Sections show an adenocarcinoma histologically similar to that seen in part A.

An intradepartmental consultation was obtained with Dr.