..._---




          HISTORY
          NSCC LLL with? Nl metastases.

          MACROSCOPIC
          Four specimens received:

          1: The first specimen is labelled "left lung" and consists of a left pneumonectomy specimen which
          measures 180 x 150 x 40 mm. Located in the apex of the left lower lobe is a large peripheral tumour
          measuring 70 x 65 x 45 mm. There is some puckering of the overlying pleura above the tumour but
          definite invasion to the pleura cannot be identified grossly. Many enlarged hilar lymph nodes and
          intraparenchymallymph nodes are identified but none of these show macroscopic evidence of tumour
          involvement. Elsewhere the visceral pleura and parenchyma show prominent carbon pigmentation.
          The visceral pleura at the apex of the left upper lobe shows a cream papule. No other lesions are
          identified grossly. [1 A, bronchial and pulmonary artery hilar resection margin; 1B-1 C, bronchial
          lymph node; ID, interlobar lymph node; lE-lG, tumour with overlying pleura; IH-lJ,
          intraparenchymallymph nodes from left lower lobe; lK, intraparenchymallymph nodes from left
          upper lobe; lL, lung away from tumour in left lower lobe; 1M, lung from left upper lobe; IN, further
          section of tumour and adjacent uninvolved parenchyma.]

          2: The second specimen is labelled "hilar lymph node No.1" and consists of a lymph node measuring
          6 mm in diameter. [BIT, 2A.]

          3: The third specimen is labelled "No.2 hilar lymph node" and consists of two fragments of nodal
          tissue, the largest measuring approximately 12 mm in diameter. [Bisected, blocked with smaller
          fragment,3A.]

          4: The fourth specimen is labelled "lymph node No.8" and consists of two fragments of nodal tissue,
          the largest measuring approximately 10 mm in diameter. The other fragment appears to contain
          multiple nodes on sectioning. [Each fragment bisected, BIT, 4A-4B.]


          MICROSCOPY
          1: Sections show a moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma which abuts but does not
          invade the pleura. There are extensive areas of tumour necrosis and several blood vessels within the
          tumour are obliterated but definite vascular invasion is not found. No lymphatic or perineural
          infiltration is seen. Peribronchial lymph nodes show reactive hyperplasia, anthracosis and a few small
          silicotic nodules but defmite tumour metastases are not found. However metastatic carcinoma is
          present within intraparenchymallymph nodes from the left lower lobe (lJ). A single fragment sampled
          as a peribronchial lymph node appears to represent a fragment of the primary tumour (lD) . Lung
          parenchyma away from the tumour shows a marked degree of peribronchial and interlobular septal
          anthracosis. There is also upper lobe emphysema and pleural fibrosis.

          2: Sections show a small lymph node in which there is no evidence of malignancy.

          3: Sections show partial replacement of the lymph node by metastatic adenocarcinoma.

          4: Sections show reactive lymph nodes with anthracosis and occasional silicotic nodules. There is no
          evidence of metastatic carcinoma.

          SUMMARY
          Left pneumonectomy and lymph node sampling:
          Moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma, 70 mm in diameter.
          No pleural, vascular or perineural infiltration seen.
          Metastases in intraparenchymal and hilar lymph nodes.
          Pathological stage T2 Nl.