SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:




 Pre-Op Diagnosis
Lung cancer
Post-Op Diagnosis
Same as above
Clinical History
Nothing indicated
Gross Description:
Five parts

Container labe                          - level 7 lymph node left
lung" has a 1.0 x        .4 cm nodular portion of gray-black fleshy
tissue which is bisected and entirely submitted in a single
cassette.

Container labele                        - level 10 lymph node left
lung" has two no~ery gray-pink fleshy tissue,
1.5 x 1.0 x 0.7 cm and 1.6 x 1.0 x 0.7 cm. Each has a mottled fleshy
gray-black cut surface. Also received in the same container are 1.0
x 0.7 x 0.4 cm of similar tissue fragments. Each of the nodules is
sectioned and individually submitted labeled A-8. Remaining tissue
fragments are submitted labeled C.

Container labeled                          - left upper lobe" has a
previously partially    . -. e_  .. l' - ctioned portion of

recognizable pulmonary parenchyma grossly consistent with left upper
lobe of lung. The specimen as received weighs 126 grams and measures
16.7 x 9.5 x 2.9 cm. The margin of resection is bifurcation of the
tertiary bronchi with an adjacent 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.7 cm fleshy
gray-black nodule. The pleura is slightly wrinkled gray-pink and
moderately anthracotic streaked. On the posterior aspect of the mid
region is a partially sectioned previously inked 3.5 x 3.2 cm area
of umbilicated induration . The specimen is partially sectioned in




                                                     of 3
this region to reveal an underlying 3.5 x 2.9 x up to 1 .6 cm
somewhat fleshy focally gritty gray-tan fibrotic lesion which
extends to but does not grossly appear to extend through the pleura.
This is seen at its nearest point 2 .3 cm from the nearest bronchial
margin . An apparent bronchial connection is identified . On
sectioning , the remaining parenchyma reveals spongy congested
parenchyma with minimal anthracotiC streaking . No additional gross
lesions are identified . Also received in the same container are two
tissue cassettes. The first is a red cassette labeled            " and
the second is a gray cassette labeled "good". Representative
sections of the tissue are submitted labeled as follows : A - shaved
bronchial margin; B - peribronchial nodule sectioned ; C-G - lesion
and surrounding tissue with pleura inked ; H - grossly uninvolved
 parenchyma .

Container labeled
lung" has four irre. ... ..-               - level 9 lymph node left
                                          y-yellow fibroadipose
tissue, from 1 .0 x 0.8 x 0 .5 cm to 2.0 x 2.0 x 0 .8 cm . Each is
sectioned and individually submitted in four cassettes .

Container labeled~ - level 5 lymph node left
lung" has a 1.6 x ~ed nodular portion of gray-tan
fleshy tissue with a mottled gray-black fleshy cut surface . The
bisected nodule is entirely submitted in a single cassette .




                                      examined . See diagnosis .

Final Diagnosis
Lymph node, level 7 , left lung (biopsy) :
 Reactive sinus histiocytosis, mild reactive lymphoid hyperplasia
and anthracosilicosis, no
 metastatic carcinoma identified within one lymph node (0/1) .
Lymph nodes, level 10, left lung (biopsy) :
 Reactive sinus histiocytosis, mild lymphoid hyperplasia and
anthracosilicosis, no metastatic
 carcinoma identified within six lymph nodes (0/6).
Lymph nodes. level 9 . left lung (biopsy) :
 Reactive sinus histiocytosis, lymphoid hyperplasia and
anthracosilicosis, no metastatic
 carcinoma identified within four lymph nodes (0/4) .
Lymph node, level 5, left lung (biopsy):
 Reactive sinus histiocytosis, lymphoid hyperplasia and
anthracosilicosis, no metastatic
 carcinoma identified within one lymph node (0/1) .
Lung , left upper lobe (lobectomy):
 Specimen integrity: Intact
 Specimen laterality : Left side
 Tumor site : Left upper lobe
  Tumor characteristics:
     H istologic type : Mucinous adenocarcinoma
  Histologic grade: Well differentiated
  Tumor site: Left upper lobe
  Tumor focality : Unifocal
  Tumor size : 3.5 x 3.2 x 1 .6 cm in greatest dimensions
  Visceral pleural invasion : Not identified (see comment)
  Lymphovascular space invasion: No unequivocal Iymphovascular space
invasion identified
  Treatment effect: Unknown
 Tumor extension : Not identified
  Surgical margin status :
    Bronchial margin: No carcinoma identified , tumor distance 2 .3
cm
    Parenchymal margin: Not applicable
 Pleural surface: No carcinoma identified, less than 1 mm from
pleural surface
  Lymph node status:
 Total number of bronchial lymph nodes: 1
    Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma : 0
(0/1 )
 See above diagnoses for other lymph nodes.
 Other findings:
 Emphysematous changes.
 Areas of subpleural fibrosis associated with carcinoma (see
comment).
 Stage: pT2a NO SPC-A

CPT: 88309, 88304 x 4, 88342 x 5 ,

Comments
Sections of the tumor show a well differentiated mucinous
adenocarcinoma . Focally, in one residual bronchus , an area of in
situ adenocarcinoma is identified. In addition , some subpleural
fibrosis is present suggesting that this is a primary adenocarcinoma
as opposed to a metastatic adenocarcinoma. A panel of
immunohistochemical stains is performed including CK7 , CK20 , CDX2,
and TTF1 (with appropriate positive and negative controls). The
neoplastic cells are strongly positive for CK7 . The neoplastic
cells demonstrate some scattered focal positive stain for CK20 . The
neoplastic cells demonstrate focal weakly positive staining TTF1.
In addition, the neoplastic cells demonstrate a rare focal positive
staining cell for CDX2.

 This demonstrates a well differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma.
 The subpleural fibrosis would suggest this represents a primary lung
 neoplasm, however, the immunohistochemical stains are equivocal and
 therefore the possibility of a metastatic lesion cannot be fully
 excluded on histologic grounds alone. Clinical correlation and
 follow up is recommended.



 At the request of the undersigne~ist , these slides have
 been additionally reviewed by _ _ _ ho concurs with the
 diagnosis.

 This test has been finalized at

  This test was                                      aracteristics
  determined by                                      It has not been
  cleared or app                                     Administration . The
  FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary.
   This test is used for clinical purposes. It should not be regarded
  as investigational or for research . This laboratory is certified
  under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of _
_~s qualified to perform high complexity clinical
"'iaboratory testing .