SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:
PROCEDURE DATE: RECEIVED DATE: REPORT ote

COPY TO:

10 Consultation

FS DIAGNOSES 1 AND 2: "Negative for neoplasm (reported to Dr.
Po positive patient ID)" by Dr. ampus

Pre-Op Diagnosis
Lung cancer
Post-Op Diagnosis
Same as above
Clinical History
Nothing indicated
Gross Description:
Six parts

Container labeled R lymph node" has 1.5 x
1.5 x 0.4 cm of gray-tan to yellow fleshy and fibrofatty tissue
fragments which are submitted for frozen section and reported as
“negative for neoplasm (reported to positive patient
ID)" by Dr. GE The frozen residue is submitted in a single
cassette.

Container labeled ee. iymph node” has a 0.6
x 0.4 x 0.2 cm irregular fragment of soft gray-tan to pink tissue

which is submitted for frozen section and reported as “negative for
neoplasm (reported to positive patient ID)" by Dr.
GEMM The frozen residue is submitted in a single cassette.

Container labeled iii - station 11 lymph node"
has a 2.2 x 1.2 x 0.8 cm lobulated fleshy red-brown to black nodule
with a mottled fleshy gray-black cut surface. The sectioned specimen
is entirely submitted in a single cassette.

Container labeled i. station 12 lymph node”
has a 1.0x 0.7 x 0.6 cm fleshy tan-pink to brown-black nodule with
a mottled fleshy brown-black cut surface. The bisected nodule is
entirely submitted in a single cassette.

Container labeled Te ign lower lobe" has a
previously partially sectioned recognizable portion of pulmonary
parenchyma grossly consistent with right lower lobe of lung. The
specimen as received weighs 313 grams and measures 15.2 x 10.5 x 5.5
cm. The margin of resection is a stapled bifurcated tertiary
bronchus. The pleura is smooth and pink-red with moderate
anthracotic streaking. On the lower medial aspect the specimen is
sectioned to reveai a previously partially sectioned 2.0 x 2.0x1.6
cm subpleural nodular lesion with a gritty gray-tan fibrotic cut
surface. This grossly extends to but not through the pleural on the
medial aspect and is seen at its nearest point 1.1 cm from the basal
pleura. The lesion is seen at its nearest point 2.8 cm from the
bronchial margin. An apparent bronchial connection is identified.
Noted on the lower outer aspect is a subpleural 0.8 x 0.7 x 0.6 cm
subpleural nodular lesion which has a fibrotic cut surface and areas
of calcification. The remaining parenchyma is spongy, slightly
edematous, and tan-pink without additional lesions. Also received in

i three tissue cassettes each labeled

| Representative sections are submitted labeled

as follows: A - shaved bronchial margin; B-E - remaining lesion and
surrounding tissue; F - lateral partially calcified nodule; G -
random uninvolved parenchyma.

Container labeled hii station 7 lymph node" has

two irregular fragments of soft gray-pink tissue, 0.8 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm
each. Specimen entirely submitted in a single cassette.

Microscopic Description:
See diagnosis.

Final Diagnosis
4 R lymph node, biopsy with frozen section:
Lymph node with anthracotic pigment, negative for neoplasm,
permanent sections confirm the
frozen section diagnosis.
41 lymph node, biopsy with frozen section:
Negative for neoplasm, permanent sections confirm the frozen
section diagnosis.
Station 11 lymph node, biopsy:
Negative for neoplasm, extensive anthracotic pigment and reactive
changes.
Station 12 lymph node, biopsy:
Negative for neoplasm.
Lung, right lower iobe, lobectomy:
Tumor characteristics:
Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated.
Tumor !focation: Subpleural right lower tung lobe.
Tumor size: 2.0 x 2.0 x 1.6 cm.
Tumor grade: Moderately differentiated.
Pleural invasion: Yes (tumor appears to focally involve overlying
pleura in slide 5D).
Lymphovascular space invasion: No.
Surgical margin status:
Tumor distance from bronchial margin: 2.8 cm.
Tumor distance from stapled margin: Not applicable.
Tumor distance from pleural surface: Less than 0.5 cm, focally
involving pleura
microscopically.
Lymph node status:

See specimens 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6.
Station 7 lymph node;

Stage: T2NO0

Comments

This test has been finalized at the P| Campus.

Original report signed out by Di
REVISION:

This revision is made to add the staging to the Diagnosis Section.
There is no change in the original diagnosis.

<Sign Out Dr. Signature>
