SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:




COPY TO: _ _ __




 Pre-Op Diagnosis
Lung cancer, right lung
Post-Op Diagnosis
Same as above
Clinical History
Nothing indicated
Gross Description:
Five parts

Container labeled "                 1 - right chest level 7 lymph
node" are two nodular portions of gray tan to pink fleshy tissue
each of which is surrounded by yellow adipose tissue. The portions
are 1.2 x 0.9 x 0.3 cm and 2.0 x 1.2 x 0.3 cm. Specimen entirely
submitted in a single cassette.

Container labeled"                   2 - level 9 lymph node right
chest" is 1.2 x 1.0 x 0.3 cm portion of tan pink fibroadipose tissue
having a 0.4 cm in greatest dimension gray tan fleshy nodule.
Specimen entirely submitted in a single cassette.

Container labeled"                   3 - right chest level 10 lymph
node" are 1.4 x 1.0 x 0.4 cm of soft rubbery focally shaggy fleshy
gray black tissue fragments which are entirely submitted in a single
cassette.

Container labeled"                    4 - upper and middle lobe of right
lung" is a partially sectioned bilobed portion of recognizable
pulmonary parenchyma grossly consistent with right upper and middle
lobes of lung. The specimen as received weighs 166 grams and
measures overall 19.6 x 11.0 x 2.5 cm. The margin of resection
includes a secondary bronchus at a point 0.4 cm from the bifurcation
of the tertiary bronchi. The pleura is wrinkled tan pink to red
with moderate anthracotic streaking. Noted on the medial aspect
within 0.2 cm of the parenchymal hilar margin and 2.8 cm from the
nearest bronchial margin there is a previously sectioned 2.2 x 2.0 x
1.8 cm fairly well defined gray tan fibrotic nodular lesion with ,the
lesion extending into the middle lobe parenchyma. Multiple staples
overlie the lesion at the parenchymal margin. Removal of these
staples obscures the actual margin. However, the lesion gross
appears to be seen within 0.2 cm of the medial parenchymal margin.
The bronchial connection is grossly identified. The lesion has a
gritty gray tan fibrotic cut surface. The remaining parenchyma is
spongy and tan pink to red with moderate anthracotic streaking. No
additional gross lesions are identified. Also r e c e i l l i ! l l
container are three tissue cassettes each labeled
Representative sections are submitted labeled as 0 ows: - save
bronchial margin; 8-E - entire remaining lesion and surrounding
tissue; F - representative random upper lobe parenchyma; G -
representative random middle lobe parenchyma.

Container labeled'                  5 - right chest level 4 lymph
node" are 2.0 x 1.5 x 0.4 cm of soft rubbery shaggy gray brown to
black fleshy tissue fragments which are entirely submitted in a




-
single cassette.



Microscopic DeSCrjiP.tioiinii:• •
The slides labeled                are examined. See diagnosis.

Final Diagnosis
Lymph nodes, level 7, right chest (biopsy):
 Reactive sinus histiocytosis and anthracosilicosis, no metastatic
carcinoma identified within
 two lymph nodes (0/2). PAS 4
Lymph node, level 9, right chest (biopsy):
 Reactive sinus histiocytosis and anthracosilicosis, no metastatic
carcinoma identified within one
 lymph node (0/1). PAS 4
Lymph node, level 10, right chest (biopsy):
 Reactive sinus histiocytosis and anthracosilicosis, no metastatic
carcinoma identified within one
 lymph node (0/1). PAS 4
Right lung, upper and middle lobes:
  Tumor characteristics:
     Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma
     Location of tumor: Right lung
     Size: 2.2 x 2.0 x 1.8 cm in greatest dimensions
     Grade: Moderate to poorly differentiated
     Pleural invasion: Not identified
     Lymphovascular space invasion: Yes
   Surgical margin status:
     Tumor distance from bronchial margin: 2.8 cm
     Tumor distance from parenchymal margin: 0.2 cm
     Parenchymal margin: No carcinoma identified
   Lymph node status:
     See above and below diagnoses. PAS 9
Other findings:
     Emphysematous changes and subpleural fibrosis. PAS 4
Lymph node, level 4, right chest:
Multiple fragments of lymph node demonstrating reactive sinus
histiocytosis, anthracosilicosis
and benign fibrous nodule, no carcinoma identified. PAS 4
SPC-A

Stage: pT1 NO

CPT: 88309, 88305 x 4

Comments
Clinical correlation and followup is recommended.

At the request of the undersigned pathologist, these slides have
been additionally reviewed by Dr. _     who concurs with the
diagnosis.

This test has been finalized at the • • • • • Campus.



<S.i.g.n.o.u.t.D.r•.S.i.g.na.t.ullre>,
•                                   ,M.D., Ph.D