FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis:

A. - H.) LUNG AND LYMPH NODES, LEFT LOWER LOBE AND MEDIASTINAL/HILAR NODES
(N6, N/7, NOL, N10L, AND N11L), LOBECTOMY AND EXCISIONS:
- INVASIVE MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA, WELL DIFFERENTIATED.
- Spanning 15.5 cm, involving almost entire left lower lobe.
- Tumor does not penetrate pleura (PLO).
- Post-obstructive pneumonitis present.
- MARGIN STATUS: NEGATIVE.
- Closest margin is bronchial at 0.3 cm.

- ZERO OF EIGHT LYMPH NODES INVOLVED BY TUMOR (0/8).

PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING SUMMARY:
ristologic type and grade: Invasive mucinous adenocarcinoma, low-grade
(well differentiated).
Primary tumor: pT3, 15.5 cm in greatest dimension (see comment).
Regional lymph nodes: pNO, 0/8.
Distant metastasis: N/A.
Pathologic tumor stage: IIB (see comment).

Margin status: RO, negative.
Lymphatic and perineural invasion: Not identified.

COMMENT: Although the tumor grossly spans 15.5 cm in greatest dimension, the
invasive component inciting a desmoplastic response is smaller (probably just over 3
cm) and raises a possible alternate (potential) classification as T2a and stage IB

based on recent literature from

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

(addendum to follow). A short panel of immunostains argues against colorectal
origin (CK/+/CK20-/CDX2-/Villin-); and lends some immunohistochemical support to a
pulmonary origin (CK7+, weakly Napsin-A positive, although it is negative for TTF-1).
The extensive involvement of the LLL argues strongly for a pulmonary primary.
Intradepartmental consultation with Dr Hs obtained.

The prior bronchial biopsy diagnosis of bronchoalveolar/mucinous adenocarcinoma
is noted

Lung Tumor Staging Information
Data derived from current specimen. Staging in accordance with or modified from AJCC Cancer Staging

Handbook nn and CAP protocol, February

Procedure:
specimen type:
specimen laterality:
specimen integrity:

TUMOR FEATURES:
Tumor site:
Tumor size:

Tumor focality:
Histologic type:

Histologic grade:

Lymphovascular invasion:

Perineural invasion:

Visceral pleural invasion:

Tumor extension into extrapulmonary structures:
Treatment effect:

LYMPH NODES:

MARGIN EVALUATION:
Uistance to closest margin:
Bronchial margin:
Vascular margin:
Parenchymal margin:
Parietal pleural margin:
Chest wall margin:

Other margins:

PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING DESCRIPTORS:
Primary tumor:

Regional lymph nodes:

Distant metastasis:

Pathologic stage:

Margin status:

Additional pathologic findings:

Lobectomy and lymph node excisions.
Lung and lymph nodes.

Left.

intact.

Left lower lobe of lung.

spans 15.5 cm, with invasive component probably just
over 3 Cm.

Unifocal.

Broncoalveolar carcinoma, mucinous (invasive
mucinous adenocarcinoma).

Low-grade (well differentiated, G1).

Not identified.

Not identified.

Not identified (PLO).

Not identified.

Not identified.

Zero of eight lymph nodes (0/8: para-aortic, mediastinal.
nilar, peribronchial).

Negative.

Bronchial at 0.3 cm.
0.3 cm.

0.3 cm.

Q.3-0.5 cm.

Cannot be assessed.
Cannot be assessed.
N/A.

p13.
DONO.
N/A.

DIIB.
RO.

Post-obstructive pneumonitis.

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Source of Specimen:
A. Lung:Left lower lobe

B. Lung bx;N11L

C. Lung bx:N10L

D. Lung bx;N9L

E. Lung bx:N11L #2
F. Lung bx;N11L #3
G. Lung bx;N6

MH. Lung bx;N7

Clinical History/Operative Dx:

Left lower lobe adenocarcinoma

intraoperative Diagnosis:
A. FSA: Left lower lobe lung: Bronchial margin free of tumor. ofa

The a — was/were performed and rendered at pe

Gross Description:

A. The specimen is labeled left lower lobe and is received without fixative. It consists of a heavy and
dense lobe of lung which measures 17 x 10.5 x 9 cm and weighs 528 grams. The pleural surface of the
iung shows some blotchy violaceous discoloration near the hilum. The pleural surface is otherwise pale
red with a translucent appearance. In the posterior-inferior surface of the lung there is a prominent area of
retraction and irregularity involving an area approximately 4 cm in maximum dimension. The pleural
Surface in this area is inked. At the hilum the bronchial margin is identified and removed as a thin shave
for frozen section. There are no obvious peribronchial nodes. Sectioning of the lung reveals an ill-defined
pale yellow firm neoplasm underlying the area of pleural disruption. This neoplasm measures 6 cm in its
Superior-inferior most extension, abutting the pleural surface of both the inferior-lateral portion of the lung
as well as the basilar surface (measuring 15.5 cm in superior-inferior axis). This neoplasm generally blends
in perceptively with the surrounding beefy and dense lung parenchyma extending nearly to the apical

edge. There is a 5 x 3.5 cm area at the apical most portion of the lung which appears uninvolved by the
process, aS well aS a 1.2 cm area along the anterior-medial basilar edge of the lung. Sectioning of the

broncni reveals no gross intrabronchial lesions. The stapled parenchymal margin is grossly negative by 3-5
mm. Representative sections of the subpleural mass are obtained for research purposes. Representative

sections are submitted. Section summary: A1) bronchial margin from frozen section, A2) vascular margins,
A3) lateral-inferior mass and overlying pleural surface (inked), A4-A5) additional sections of lateral inferior
mass, A6) sections of basilar surface of lung, A7-A8) sections of mid lower lung lobe, A9) sections of apical
lower lung lobe, A10-A11) section of bronchus and immediately adjacent pulmonary parenchyma (block
A171 for light decalcification) iii

B. The specimen is labeled N11L and is received in formalin. It consists of two 0.6 - 0.7 cm fragments of
tan to dull red and anthracotic tissue which are submitted in cassette B1. ee

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

C. The specimen is labeled N10L and is received in formalin. It consists of a single. 1.5x.0.9 x 0.6 cm tan
lymph node. The node is serially sectioned and entirely submitted in cassette C1.

WU. The specimen is labeled N9L and is received in formalin. It consists of a single violet-tan 1.5 x 0.8 x 0.7
cm lymph node. It is serially sectioned and entirely submitted in D1. Ia

cE. [he specimen is labeled N11L #2 and is received in formalin. It consists of a 0.7 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm
fragment of gray-tan and anthracotic tissue. It is trisected and submitted in cassette E1. ae

r. The specimen is labeled N11L #3 and is received in formalin. It consists of a single 0.7 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm
fragment of dull red tissue which is submitted intact in cassette F1 :_

G. The specimen is labeled N6 and is received in formalin. It consists of a 1.1 x 1.0 x 0.6 cm fragment of
soft fibrofatty tissue. Within the fatty tissue there are two areas of anthracotic discolorationgwbich vary from
0.6 - 0.2 cm in maximum dimension. The anthracotic areas are submitted in cassette G1 =

_—
H. The specimen is labeled N7 and is received in formalin. It consists of four fragments of reddish violet
and anthracotic tissue along with focal adherent fatty tissue. These four fragments vary from 0.6 cm in
maximum dimension to 1.8 x 1 x 0.7 cm. The largest fragment is serially sectioned and submitted in
cassette H1. The second largest fragment is submitted intact in cassette H2. The two remaining fragments
are each bivalved and submitted in cassette H3 (larger inked). a

Microscopic Description:
A. Ihe sections show an invasive mucinous adenocarcinoma with lepidic growth pattern peripherally as
weil as a Central zone inciting desmoplastic response (the latter zone is estimated to be just over 3 cm).
The tumor consists of numerous glands lined by mucinous epithelium having low-intermediate grade
nuclei. [he tumor abuts the visceral pleura and focally invades the elastic fibers of that pleura (but does
not fully transgress the elastic fibers of the pleura or penetrate to the visceral pleural surface). The
bronchovascular margin is negative (along with an adjacent benign peribronchial node, 0/1). All together
(including nodes in specimens B-H) there are eight benign lymph nodes (0/8).

Per request 7 Tae tumor IS Stained to try to confirm pulmonary origin. The tumor shows strong
expression of CK/, weak expression of Napsin, but is negative for: TTF-1, CDX2, Villin, and CK20.

B. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.

C. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.

U. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.

C. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

rendered.

F, Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.

G. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.

H. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.

