HISTORY
RLL lesion .

MACROSCOPIC
Two specimens submitted.

 I: The first specimen is labelled "right lower lobectomy" and consists of a right lower lobectomy
specimen which measures 70 x 80 x 60 mm. Sectioning reveals a large tumour present predominantly
in the superior aspect of the lobe which measures 7S x 60 x 60 mm. The tumour has a pink and tan
colour and has a soft consistency. The tumour reaches the pleura but no definite invasion through the
pleura is seen grossly . The tumour extensively invades around bronchi and at one point tumour is seen
to erode through the bronchial wall to form a polypoid mass measuring up to 10 mm within the
bronchial lumen. This is present approximately 14 mm away from the nearest bronchial resection
margin. The tumour appears to come within approximately 2 mm of the hilar resection margin but
tumour is not seen at a surgical resection margin. Located away from the main tumour within the
inferomedial aspect of the lung are three separate tumour nodules measuring between S to 12 mm in
diameter. An area of fibrosis and calcification measuring up to 3 mm in diameter is also seen within
the region of one of the separate tumour nodules in the inferior aspect of the lobe. Lung tissue at the
superio~ aspect of the lobe proximal to the tumour shows yellow discolouration. The lung in the
inferior aspect of the lobe distal to the tumour appears fairly unremarkable. [I A, bronchial and hilar
vascular resection margins; IB, vascular resection margin and lymph nodes; I C-l G, tumour with ID
being mediastinal resection margin, I E bronchus with invasion by tumour; I G-lI, separate tumour
deposits inferior to the main tumour; lJ, uninvolved lung proximal to tumour; lK, uninvolved lung
distal to tumour.]

2: The second specimen is labelled "hilar lymph node" and consists of multiple fragments of grey
tissue measurin in aggregate approximately 20 x 20 x S mm. [BIT, 2A.]


MICROSCOPY
I: Sections show a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. Much of the tumour has the
cytoarchitectural features of a non-mucinous bronchioloalveolar carcinoma, but unequivocal stromal
invasion is present, and an endobronchial component is confirmed. Tumour abuts but does not invade
the pleura, and the bronchial and mediastinal resection margins are clear of malignancy. No vascular
or lymphatic invasion is identified. Peribronchial lymph nodes show no evidence of metastatic
adenocarcinoma. Several satellite nodules are confirmed in lung parenchyma inferior to the main
tumour mass. These show the BAC architecture and presumably represent spread through airways.

2: Sections show fragments of lymph node in which there is no evidence of metastatic
adenocarcinoll1 ~\'


SUMMARY
Right lower lobectomy: Moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with a large component of
bronchioloalveolar carcinoma, 7S mm in diameter, with adjacent satellite nodules.
No pleural, vascular, lymphatic or perineural infiltration present.
No lymph node metastases.
Pathological stage T4 NO.




T-28000 M-81403 PI-03000