Surg Path Final Report
• Final Report·



                                     • Final Report '
SURG PATH FINAL REPORT
                                SURGICAL PATHOLOGY




PROCEDURE
  Right thoraco t omy .

  SPECIMEN :
  A. Right upper lobe FS .      B.   R4 lymph node .    C.   Subcarinal
  lymph node .

HISTORY
  Right upper l obe nodules (x2) .

GROSS
  A. HRight upper lobe freeze bronchial margins . " Received fresh for
  immediate evaluation and frozen section analysis is a partly
  collaps ed lobe of lung, which has a smal l a'llount of hemorrhage ov er
  the surface .   Most of the pleural surfaces are smoo th, glistening
  and light to medium purple-brown. It weighs 2ilO grams . The
  bronchial r esection margin portion of t he most hilar aspect of t he
  specimen is a bronchus 1.1 x 0.9 em across . This resect ion margin
  is shaved from the sp ecimen and submitted as a froze n section block .
  Two nodules are palpated in the upper aspect of the lobe and both
  show some degree of overlying puckering of the pleural surfaces .
  These are marked by me with blue dye. The more lateral lesion is
  cut across and reveal s a subpleural , Io.'hite and gray speck led lesion
  2 .0 x 1 .7 cm on cut surface. A portion of this is removed for the
  t umor genome p roject in th e usual ma nner . The second nodule, which
  is more apically situated , has its epicenter about 2 em a way from
  the lesion mentioned above and has more o f a yellowish cut surface ,
  is well circumscribed and up to 1 . 8 x 1 . 7 cm and presents focally
  just beneath the pleural s urface, also with some overlying puckeri ng
  of plerua . A portion of this tumor is also sampled for the tumor
  genome project .

  After preparat ion of the frozen section, the frozen secti on remnant
  is placed in a block and t he remainder of the tissue is f i xed prior
  to further processing .

  .;fter fi xati on of the specimen, the fro zen section cont rol is
  processed as block FSAl . Additional tissues in t he region of th e
   vascular and bronchial margins are taken after removing staples , in
   block A2 , whi ch include apparent vascular margi ns , a dd itional




Printed by:                                                                   Page 1 of 4
Printed on :                                                                  (Continued)
Surg Path Final Report
• FinaJ Report·



  bronch ial tissue and par abronchial lymph nodes . The more l a teral
  tumor site is then sampled as multiple pieces in blocks A3 and A4,
  including overlying puckered t:>leural surfaces .

  AS . This is a vertical section taken between the two foci of
  tumors , which appears to be free of gross tumor . This section will
  let us know whether there is direct connection between the nodules
  or not, on a microscopic level .
  A6-A7. t-lore apical, second focus and overlying puckered pleural
  surface.

  Upon further inspecting the specimen after fixation, the two foci of
  tumors appear to be fairly close together, perhaps as close as 5 mm,
  and may be continuous as a ~dumbbell~ fashion if connected . A
  sec tion of uninvolved lung ti ssue from the lower aspect of the lobe
  is taken as block AS .

  B.    ~ R4   lymph node.~   A mostly dark black and focally yellow piece
  of tissue is 1 . 4 x 1 . 2 x up to 0 . 5 cm.  It is bisected .

  C . " Subcarinal l ymph node . Three pieces of jet black tissue are
                                   H


  from 4 , 9 and 16 mm across . Only t he largest is bisected but all
  material is then processed as one block.       11IIIIIIII
FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
  A. Bronchial resection margin negative for tumor .
MICROSCOPIC                                                   -
  A. Th e fro zen section contro l confirms the frozen section findings
  of a proximal bronchial resection margin that is negative for tumor.
  The t\'10 foci cont a ining gross tumor, the more laterally situated and
  the more atypically situated have identical histology with areas
  showing adenocarcinoma growing in scar tissue \",ith some areas
  s howing more clear cell patte rns to the cytopl asm and other areas
  having more eosinophilic and darker cytoplasm . Some of the l atter
  tumor grows in a lepidic pattern including focally into the visceral
  pleura, with at least one smal l focus deposited and stuck to the
  outside of the visceral pleura           ). Deeper sections have been
  made of these foci . The sec tion taken between the two nodules,
  although not grossly i nvolved, has microscopic involvement of
  additional invasive adenocarcinoma whi ch therefore shows a
  connection between these two otherwise apparently separate nodules .
  Thus, I think this is a single tumor with a so-called dumbbel l shape
  and both foci of tumors making the larger nodules have mixtures of
  clear-type cytoplasm and eosinophilic-type cytoplasm . Emphysema is
  also found within the lung .

  A focus of tumor shows growth in t o a th ick-walled b lood vess e l,
  probably a vein . A single parabronchial lymph node is fo und and is
  negative for metastatic disease.




Printed by:                                                                  Page 2 of 4
Printed on:                                                                  (Continued)
Surg Path Final Report
• Final Report •



  B . The lymph node is studied at multiple cuts through the node and
  is enlarged and has reactive changes, but does not contain
  me t astatic disease .

  c.    The lymph node is    enl ~            rea cti ve changes and is negati ve
   for metastatic di s ease .    11IIIIIIII
  The case is seen by Dr. _             who is in agreement with the
  f ollowing diagnoses .

DIAGNOSIS
  A. Right upper lung lobe, biopsy with frozen section :
        Invasive moderately differentiated adenocarci noma .
                                                           CPT 88307, 88331

       Parabronchial lymph node negative for metastatic disease .
                                                           CPT 88305

  B.    R4 lymph node, biopsy :
          Reactive lymph node, negative for t umor .
                                                          CPT 88305

  C. Subcarinal lymph node , biopsy :
        Reactive l ymph node nega tive for tumor .
                                                          CPT 8 8305
   • '. ~ SYNOPTIC REPORT   LUNG· • *

  SPECIlt,EN: Lung.
  PROCEDURE : Lobectomy .
  SPECIMEN INTEGRITY: Single . intact .
  SPECIMEN Lli1'ERALITY : Right .
  TUMOR SITE : Upper lobe .
  TU!10R SIZE : Approximately 4 . 3 cm (dumbbell shaped, two nearby
  nodules connected microscopically) .
  TUMOR FOCALITY : Single focus but with two dominan t nodules .
  HISTOLOGIC TYPE : Adenocarcinoma .
  HISTOLOGIC GRADE : 2 .
  VISCERAL PLEURA INVASION : Yes .
  TU!10R EXTENSION : Tiny amount on outer s urface of v is ceral pleura .
  HARGINS : Neg .
        Bronchial margin : Neg .
        Vascular margin : Neg .
        Parenchymal margin : Neg .
        Parietal pleural margin : Not sampl e d .
        Chest wall margin: Not sampled.
        Other attached tissue margin : Not sampl ed.
        Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin : About 5
         em .
  TREATNENT EF FECT : None .
  LYf-1PH-VASCULliR INVASION : Not identi fied .
  LYMPH NODES: Negative, reactive.




Printed by:                                                                         Page 3 of 4
Printed on:                                                                         (Continued)
Surg Path Final Report
• Final Report '



   OTHER FI NDINGS : Emphys ema .
   PATHOLOGICAL TNM (AJCC 7th ed . ) ;
        TNM DESCRI?rORS :
        pT : 2a PL2 .
          pN :     O.

                          (Electronic Signature)




Completed
* Order by


Type:
Dale:
Status:
Tille:
Encounter info:




Printed by:                                           Page 4 of 4
Printed on:                                        (End of Report)