SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

De-ldentified Specimen Code: P|

Patient Age/Sex | M

SPECIMEN SUBMITTED: .
RIGHT LOWER LOBE LUNG RESECTION

Final Diagnosis

Right lung, lower lobe, wedge resection - Adenocarcinoma, papillary predominant with acinar
(30%), micropapillary (10%) and lepidic (10%) patterns.

- Centrilobular emphysema.

- Organizing pneumonia.

Diagnosis Comment:

The tumor size is Tumor Size: 5.5 x 3x 2m. The parenchymal margin is negative for neoplasm. invasion into
the overlying pleura will be assessed with Movats stains and the results of those studies reported as an.
addendum. The tumor will be send for EGFR mujtational analysis and the results of those studies reported as
an addendum.

Intraoperative Diagnosis:
A. Inked parenchymal margin negative. Tumor: atypical, suspicious for adenocarcinoma in situ

Clinical Diagnosis:
RIGHT LOWER LOBE MASS

Page 1 of 2
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Gross Description:

A. Received in formalin labeled "right lower lobe lung resection" is a specimen consisting of a lung
wedge measuring 15.2 x 5.5 x 2.3 cm, and weighing 77 grams. The parenchymal margin is inked
orange, and the pleural surface is partially inked blue. The pleural surface is smooth with anthracotic
pigmentation and a focal area of puckering at the site of a surgical stitch (the wedge split during
extraction). On sectioning the specimen, a tan gelatinous area of consolidation with a friable cavity is
identified abutting the pleura under the area of the stitch. The whole area of consolidation and cavity
measures 5.5 x 3 x 2.cm. A tan firm lobulated mass within this area measures 3.3 x 2 x 1.2 cm. The
area of consolidation extends to 0.1 cm from the resection margin inked orange. The remainder of the
lung parenchyma shows areas of atelectasis and hemorrhage. A small tan firm nodule measuring 0.2
cm is present separate from the area of consolidation, and is located 1.5 cm from it. Sections are
submitted as follows: FSA1 resection margin for frozen evaluation, FSA2 tumor for frozen evaluation, A3
-A14 consolidating area with adjacent pleura (totally submitted) and resection margin (orange), A8-A13
cavity; A9-A10 closest resection margin, A15 separate nodule.

Microscopic:
{Not Entered}

Page 2 of 2
