HISTORY
? Bronchiolo-alveolar carcinoma.

MACROSCOPIC
Five specimens received:

1: The first specimen which is a frozen section is labelled 'Lung Bx, frozen section' and consists of a
wedge oflung tissue with overlying visceral pleura measuring 20 x 12 x 4 mm. Serial sections taken
through specimen. No discrete lesion identified. [BIT for FS.]

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS:
Adenocarcinoma (abuts diathermy margin).

Result phoned to

[Frozen section remnants, lA.]

2: The second specimen is labelled with the patient's details only and consists ofa left
pneumonectomy specimen. The left upper lobe measures 250 (SI) x 150 (AP) x 70 mm (ML). The left
lower lobe measures 230 (SI) x 140 (AP) x 70 mm (ML) . There is an incomplete fissure on the lateral
surface of the left lower lobe. Over the lateral aspect of the pleura of the left upper lobe there is a
broad area of pallor under which the lung parenchyma is firm. This area measures approximately 140
x 110 rnm. Similar subpleural firm pale areas are present throughout the lingula and are present on
both the lateral and medial aspects of the pleura and varying in size from 3 rnm up to 30 mm. At the
hilar aspect of the lung the bronchial resection margin measures 20 rnm in diameter and is raised 30
mm from the surrounding tissue. A single area of pale subp leural thickening is noted in the left lower
lobe measuring 11 mm in maximum dimension. This area occurs on the anterior aspect of the left
lower lobe in the interlobar fissure. There are three areas of pleural deficiency on the left upper lobe;
one anterior and lateral measuring 30 rnm in diameter and one overlying the pale area posteriorly and
superiorly measuring 30 rum in diameter where the pleura appears pulled back and is able to be laid
over the deficit. A third sutured area of pleural deficit and an underlying parenchymal defect is noted
at the postero-inferior edge of the left upper lobe laterally. This area measures 30 mm in diameter.

On sectioning the lung, the majority of the left upper lobe is replaced by confluent pale tumour
measuring 165 (SI) x 120 (AP) x up to 60 rnm (ML) . There are numerous other deposits in the lingula
and in the most inferior aspect of the left upper lobe varying in size from 1 mm up to 20 rnm . There is
extensive subpleural tumour with the large majority of the lateral aspect of the pleura appearing to be
involved by tumour. Further sectioning reveals tumour to abut the pleura on the medial aspect of the
left upper lobe adjacent to the hilum. Tumour approaches but does not appear to reach the hilar
resection margin. There is no definite tumour on the visceral pleural surface.

Sectioning the left lower lobe also reveals multiple deposits of pale tumour both in superior and
inferior aspects of the lobe. These tumour deposits vary in size from 5 up to 30 rnm in maximum
extent.

[Bronchial resection margin, 2A; hilar lymph nodes, 2B; vascular resection margins, 2C; hilar and
peribronchial lymph nodes, 2D-2E; tumour underlying pleura and adjacent inked hilar resection
margin, 2F; tumour underlying pleura of left upper lobe adjacent to hilar resection margin, 2G; solid
area of tumour medial left upper lobe no pleura, 2H; inferior left upper lobe tumour and overlying
pleura, 21; superior, 2J; lateral area of inferior left upper lobe in region of sutured pleural defect (?
Frozen site), 2K; lateral left upper lobe, 2L; left lower lobe inferior, two separate tumour deposits, 2M;
left lower lobe superiorly, 2N-20; uninvolved lung left lower lobe, 2P.]

3: The third specimen is labelled 'hilar lymph node' and consists of three lymph nodes which measure
18 x 20 xIS mm in maximum extent. [Two bisected, 3A; third bisected, 3B.]

4: The fourth specimen is labelled 'mediastinal lymph node' and consists of five fragments oflymph
node varying in size from 5 up to 12 rnm in maximum extent and one piece of fat measuring 5 rnm.
[Lymph nodes bisected in toto, 4A.]
-
5: The fifth specimen is labelled 'hilar lymph node' and consists of a single lymph node measuring 12
mm in maximum extent. [Bisected in toto , SA.]


MlICROSCOPIC
1: Paraffin sections confirm the frozen section diagnosis of adenocarcinoma. Lepidic extension of
tumour is also noted. The overlying visceral pleura is not infiltrated by tumour. Tumour involves the
diathermied margin.

2: Within the upper and lower lobes there are multiple deposits of well differentiated adenocarcinoma
which in areas show relatively extensive lepidic extension. The invasive tumour shows a predominant
papillary architecture and is composed of mucinous and non-mucinous cells. Tumour deposits abut the
visceral pleura in number of areas and there is focal visceral pleural invasion. No pleural surface
involvement is seen. There is distension of some lymphatic channels. No unequivocal lymphatic
invasion is seen. No vascular invasion or perineural permeation is identified. The bronchial resection
margin is clear of tumour. Tumour approaches to within 30um of the peri-hilar margin in an area
devoid of pleura. Although this margin is closely approached, tumour is not transected in this region.
Tumour abuts the area of diathermy artefact within the upper lobe corresponding to the biopsy site for
frozen section. In a separate area, tumour abuts visceral pleura which shows diathermy artefact
precluding further assessment. Tumour infiltrates one of the lymph nodes within the hilar region by
direct extension. The remaining lymph nodes are not involved. Lung parenchyma away from the
tumours shows emphysema together with foci of atypical adenomatous hyperplasia.

3-5: The lymph nodes show reactive changes with sinus histiocytosis, carbon pigment deposition and
mild follicular hyperplasia. There is no evidence of malignancy.

SUMMARY
Left lung and lymph nodes (hilar and mediastinal):
Well differentiated adenocarcinoma.
Multiple separate lesions involving the upper and lower lobes.
Largest tumour deposit 165 IJ1Ill in diameter.
Visceral pleura focally involved, no surface involvement identified.
No unequivocal lymphatic invasion seen.
No vascular invasion or perineural permeation identified.
Bronchial resection margin clear, peri-hilar margin closely approached.
Perihilar lymph node involved by direct extension of tumour.
Remaining hilar lymph nodes and mediastinal nodes not involved by tumour.
Non-neoplastic lung: Emphysema and foci of atypical adenomatous hyperplasia.
Pathological stage: T4 NI Ml.




T-28000 M-81403 PI-03000