UUID: 6FB7C18D -27D8- 4004 - BBF8 - AA7EA16F8C8A
                                                                                                                TCGA- 55-A494 - G1A-PR                 Redacted
                                                                                                       III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
                                                                                                       III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
                                                                                                       I I I I I I I I I IlilIi l 11 l 1111111111111111 l il 111 i i1I l I I l 111

                                               C
                                                   Sex:
                                                   D.Q.B.:
                                                   MRN #
                                                   Ram




 LUNG CANCER MUTAi-ION PANEL.

 SPECIMEN SOURCE: LUNG LOBECTOMY
 SPECIMEN/BLOCK NUMBER-                                               a demo co^rc (r                                        ^4         S $t` ^-^
 EGFR Mutation: NOT DETECTED
 Results reviewed by

 The following polymorphism was detected: 2361g>A.                                                                    (;-If -J?- 2JO
 Sequencing of the entire coding region and splice junction sites of exons 18-21 of the EGFR gene revealed no previously published mutations or any
 sequence changes that could result in amino acid changes. However, one or more polymorphic sequence changes were discovered in the EGFR gene.
 These polymorphisms are interpreted as non-pathogenic because they do not lead to amino acid changes. These polymorphisms are not expected to
 have any clinical significance. As 7% of patients who respond to EGFR inhibitors do not show mutations in exons 18-21 of EGFR gene, a negative result
 does not preclude the possibility of a clinical response to EGFR inhibitors.

 „KS Mutation Analysis

 KRAS Mutation: DETECTED
 (Abnormal) Results reviewed by

 Based on sequence analysis, K-Ras codon 12 GGT>GAT (GI2D) mutant was detected.

 Lung Ca (NSCLC),ALK,FISH: SEE BELOW

Specimen Type: Paraffin Embedded Tumor Tissue

Clinical Indication: FISH study for oncology

Method : FISH
Total Cells : 50
Images Captured : 2

RESULT: NEGATIVE FOR ALK REARRANGEMENT [SEE COMMENT BELOW)

INTERPRETATION:

Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis did not reveal a rearrangement of the ALK gene. However, 1-3 additional copies of the ALK region were
observed in 80% of cells. The significance of additional copies of the ALK region is not dear.

In non-small cell lung carcinoma, overexpression of the AL.K kinase is seen most commonly through an inversion producing ELM4-ALK fusion protein. A
small proportion of tumors (approximately 5%) with ALK rearrangement demonstrated by other methods may be missed by this study. This test is
indicated as an aid in the assessment of patients for whom crizotinib (i.e. XALKORI) treatment is being considered. Correlation with clinical findings and
other laboratory studies is indicated.

Please expect the result of any other concurrent test in a separate report.



FISH test was performed using a break-apart probe specific for the ALK gene                            According to the manufacturers directional
insert, the cutoff value for ALK rearrangement is 15% of interphase cells in paraffin-embedded specimens. This assay has been approved by the U,S.
Food and Drug Administration.

Laboratory results reviewed and Clinical Interpretation provided by

Test performed and reported under supervision c
Test performed at

Addendum Report Issued By:




DIAGNOSIS:
A. Level 9 lymph nodes:
          Two benign lymph nodes with non-caseating granulomatous Inflammation , see comment (0/2).

B. Level 7 lymph node.
          Benign, hyperplasia (0/1).

C. Level 8 lymph node:
          Benign, hyperplasia, non-caseating granulomatous inflammation , see comment (0/1).

D. Right lower lobe of lung lobectomy:
          Tumor Characteristics:
1. Histologic type: Adenocaranoma.
2. Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated.
3. Tumor site: Peripheral.
4. Tumor locality: Unifocal.
5. Tumor size: 3.5 x 3 .0 x 1.0 cm.
6. visceral pleural invasion : Not identified.
7. Lymphovancuiar space invasion: Not identified.
8. Tumor extension : Not identified.
9. Treatment effect: Not identified.
         Surgical Margin Status:
1. Tumor distance from bronchial margin: 1.5 cm.
2. Tumor distance from parenchymal (stapled) margin: 1.5 cm.
3. Tumor distance from pleural surface : Less than 0.1 cm.
         Lymph Node Status (utilizing all speci mens):
1. Total number of lymph nodes received: 8.
2. Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma : None (018).
          Other:
1. Other significant findings: Block 9 has been submitted for lung carcinoma mutation evaluation panel. A further report will follow.
          Non-caseating granulomatous inflammation is identified in several of the lymph node , see comment.
           Mild to moderate chronic bronchitis and patchy areas of fibrosis are noted.
 2. pTNM stage: pT2, NO.




                                                  Electronic Signature:

 COMMENTS:                                                                 the lymph nodes is of uncertain etiology however the possibility of sarcoidosis would
 The non-Caseating granufamatous inflammation identified in some of                                                 is suggested.
 be, given the pattern of granulomas identified, at the top of the list followed by infection. Clinical correlation
CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis:   y/c             iith right lung mass
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptoms/Radiologic Findings:

SPECIMENS:
A. Level 9 lymph node
B. Level 7 lymph node
C. Level 8 lymph node
D. Right lower lobe



GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received in four formalin filled containers labeled with the patients name

A. Container A is additionally labeled 'level 9 lymph node ' and contains two gray-black rubbery nodules consistent with anthracotic lymph nodes. They
are 0.5 and 1.7 cm in greatest dimension- The largest nodule is inked and bisected and all tissue is submitted in cassette Al labeled

B. Container 8 is additionally labeled level 7 lymph node' and contains a 1.5 cm purple -gray nodule consistent with lymph node. The specimen Is
sectioned and entirely submitted in cassette 81 labeler

C. Container C is additionally labeled 'level 8 lymph node ' and contains a 3.5 x 2.3 x 1.0 cm gray-black rubbery nodule consistent with anthracotic lymph
node. The specimen is serially sectioned and entirely submitted in cassettes C1 through 4 labeler

D. Container D is additionally labeled 'right lower lobe' and contains 11.5 x 11.0 x 7.0 cm lung lobe. The pleura is purple-gray anthracotic . A 10.5 cm in
length serpiginous staple line Is present . The pleura is remarkable for a 3.0 x 2.5 cm yellow - tan plaque like lesion and area of umbilication consistent
with tumor. This area is inked blue. The staple line is removed and the underlying parenchyma is beefy red and glistening with no discrete lesions.
Exposed vascular margins are present, as well as a 0. 6 cm in length x 0.9 cm in diameter bronchial margin. Additional small bronchiole margins are
present within the exposed parenchyma . The largest bronchus is opened to reveal a clear mucoid intraluminal substance. The endothelium is yellow-tan
and striated with no discrete lesions . The specimen is serially sectioned to reveal a 3.5 x 3.0 x 1.0 an ill-defined gray-white mass abutting the pleura at
the site of umbilication and approaching to within 1.5 an of both the bronchial and parenchymal margins . The remainder of the parenchyma is pink-tan
spongy and congested with no additional lesions. Four black anthracotic parabronchial nodules are identified consistent with lvmnh nn*tw'        These range
from 0 . 4 up to 0. 9 an in greatest dimension. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes 01 through 11 labeled                          designated
as follows: 01 and 2, bronchiole and vascular margins to include largest bronchial margin in cassette D2: cassette 03, rnicea , parenchymal margin,
perpendicular; D4 through 8. mass to inked pleura ; 9 and 10, additional mass: 11. four whole possible parabronchial lymph nodes. Additionally, a yellow,
green and blue cassette are submitted for genomics research each labeled


MICROSCOPIC EXAMINATION:
Special stains for acid-fast bacilli and fungi done selectively on the Level 9 lymph node demonstrates no mierooor p



                                                         CrPeria
                                                         Diagnosis Discrepancy
                                                         Primary Tumcr Site Dina ep,ncy
                                                         111P.M Discrepancy
                                                         Prior Malignancy History
                                                         Dual/Sypchrpi.ous Pri