UUID : FCOE595B -7330- 4532 - AFOD - 9484A4EC890C
                             TCGA-44-A47F-01A-PR                           Redacted
                    III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIX11111   1C O-a--2
                    III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
                    III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII(1IIIIINIIIIIIIIIIIII        adkrNocarcl
                                  Final Surgical Pathology Report


      Procedure:

      Diagnosis
      A.  Lymph node, level X, excision:
      Two lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/2).
      Vessel negative for tumor.

     B.  Lung, left upper lobe, excision:
     Invasive moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma (see microscopic
     description).
     The tumor measures 5.5 cm in dimension.
     Two of 8 hilar lymph nodes positive for metastatic carcinoma (2/8).
     C.  Lymph node, level VII, excision:
     One lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/1).

     D.  Lymph node, level V, excision:
     One lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/1).

     Microscopic Description:
     Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma
     Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated
     Primary tumor (pT): Tumor measures 5.5 cm in dimension and is organ
     confined, pT2b
 Margins of resection: Tumor is present approximately 4 mm from the
 bronchial margin.  The vascular margin is negative.
 Direct extension of tumor: Tumor shows minimal extension into the
 pleura.
 Vessel invasion: Present in a large vessel
 Regional lymph nodes (pN): 2 hilar lymph nodes are positive for
 carcinoma with one showing probable direct extension and the other
 showing metastatic tumor, the remaining lymph nodes are negative, pNl
 Distant metastasis (pM):  pMX
 Other findings: Dr.
                            has reviewed this case.


 Specimen
 A.  Level X
 B.       Left upper lobe
 C.       Level VII
 D.       Level V

Clinical Information
Lung cancer


Gross Description
A. Received fresh labeled "level X" are 2 soft gray-black tissues in
keeping with lymph nodes averaging 1.3 cm in greatest dimension. Also
received within the specimen container is a 1.1 x 0.4 x 0.15 cm
fragment of soft tan-pink tissue in keeping with vessel which has
several associated staples.  RS 2
Summary: 1 - 2 lymph nodes in toto, 2 - possible vascular tissue
B.
   Received fresh labeled "left upper lobe" is a 233 g, 18.5 x 11.0 x
3.8 cm lobectomy specimen with attached 1 cm in length, 3.5 x 1.0 cm in
diameter bronchial stump.
                           The pleura is tan-pink-red with a focal area
of retraction, subsequently inked blue. An indurated focus is present
subjacent to the area of retraction. On sectioning, there is a
moderately well-circumscribed, 5.5 x 4.2 x 3.8 cm tan-white tumor mass
extends to within 0.1 cm of the inked pleural surface. The tumor
extends to the vicinity of the hilum and appears to be within the
proximal bronchial stump (to within approximately 0.8 cm of the true
bronchial stump margin, see block 5). A portion of tumor and a portion
of normal parenchyma are submitted for tissue procurement as requested.
  The parenchyma throughout the remainder of the specimen is spongiform
 tan-pink to tan red. No additional mass lesion or abnormalitynis s
         Several soft gray-black tissues in keeping wit lymph
 noted.
 measuring up to 1.3 cm in greatest dimension are recovered from the
vicinity of the hilum. RS 10             vascular margins, 2 and 4 -
Summary: 1 - bronchial stump margin, 3 - v
tumor to inked pleural surface, 5 - tumor extending up bronchus
 (following        removal
 normal,
 bisected hilar lymph node

    Received fresh labeled "level VII" is a 0.5 cm slightly rubbery
 C.
 gray-black tissue in keeping with lymph node with a scant amount of
 associated adipose tissue.  AS1

    Received fresh labeled "level V" is a 0.6 cm gray-black tissue in
 D.
 keeping with lymph node with a moderate amount of associated tan gold
 adipose tissue.   AS1