FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis:

A. - M.) LUNG, RIGHT, LYMPH NODES, N4R, N4R#2, N4R43, N10R, N7, N10L, N4L, N2R,
N7, N7#2, LYMPH NODE BIOPSIES AND RESECTIONS, WEDGE RESECTIONS (X2),

AND COMPLETION PNEUMONECTOMY:
. Adenocarcinoma with mucinous features, well differentiated.
- Two foci in right lower lobe, 1.5 cm in greatest dimension eacn.

-One focus in right upper lobe, 2.0 cm in greatest dimension.
- Visceral pleural invasion present, tumor does not extend to pleural surface.

- Surgical margins negative.
- Twenty-two lymph nodes, no tumor seen (0/22).

. See comment.

PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING SYNOPSIS (Right lower lobe):
Type and grade: Adenocarcinoma, well differentiated.
Primary tumor: pT3(2 tumor foci).

Regional lymph nodes: pNO.

Distant metastasis: N/A.

Pathologic stage: IIB.

Lymphovascular invasion: Not identified.

Margin status: RO, negative.

PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING SYNOPSIS (Right upper lobe):
Type and grade: Adenocarcinoma, well differentiated.
Primary tumor: pT 2a.

Regional lymph nodes: pNO.

Distant metastasis: N/A.

Pathologic stage: IB.

Lymphovascular invasion: Not identified.

Margin status: RO, negative.

COMMENT: Sections show three histologically similar foci of adenocarcinoma with
with areas of definitive invasion and areas of a mucinous bronchioloalveolar pattern.
ne tumor cells are diffusely, strongly positive for CK7 and show patchy positivity for

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

ative for CK20, TTF-1, and Napsin-A. There are three foct
d (two in the right lower lobe and one in the right upper
sis includes adenocarcinoma of lung primary versus

f gastrointestinal primary (upper Gl, pancreato-biliary
mas are typically positive for CK7, TIF-1 ana

nd CK20, however, lung primary
atchy positivity for CDX2.

the setting of metastatic

CDX2 and villin and are neg
of adenocarcinoma identitfie
lobe). Tne differential diagno
metastatic adenocarcinoma O

and colon). Lung primary adenocarcino

Napsin-A and negative for CDXz2, villin a
adenocarcinomas with mucinous differentiation can show p

Three tumor foci are seen in the lung, which can be seen in
disease and a multifocal lung primary. The diffusely, strongly positive CK/, patchy

CDX2 positivity, negative CK20, and the presence of a bronchioloalveolar growth
‘ent is staged accordingly,

ompletely
sion, negative lymph

nodes and associated bronc
right lower lobe are staged separately.

ee

Procedure:

Specimen type:

Specimen laterality:
Specimen integrity:

Tumor Features:

Tumor site:
Tumor size:

Tumor focality:

Histologic type:

Histologic grade:
Lymphovascular invasion:
Perineural invasion:
Visceral pleural invasion:

Tumor extension into extra-pulmonary structures:

Treatment effect:

Lymph Nodes:

Margin Evaluation:

Distance to closest margin:
Bronchial margin:
Vascular margin:
Parenchymal margin:
Parietal pleural margin:
Chest wall margin:

Other margins:

Pathologic tumor staging descriptors:

Primary tumor (p1):
Regional lymph nodes (ON):
Distant metastasis (pM):
Margin status (R):
Pathologic stage:

Additional pathologic findings:

Comment:

Multiple lymph node biopsies and resections,
right upper lobe ana right lower lobe
iobectomies, and right lung resection.

Right upper lobe, right lower lobe, right lung
resection, multiple lymph node biopsies and

resections.
Right.
Intact.

Right upper lobe, right lower lobe.

Multifocal, Right upper lobe: 2.0: right lower lobe
two foci: 1.5 and 1.5 cm.

Multifocal.

Adenocarcinoma with mucinous features.
Well differentiated (G1).

Not identifieq.

Not identified.

PL1. tumor extends into visceral pleura but does
not extend to pleural surface (seen in both the
right upper lobe and right lower lobe.

Not identified.
N/A.

Twenty-two lymph nodes, no tumor seer.

Parietal pleura at 0.1 Cm.
Greater than 2 cm.
Greater than 2 Cm.
Greater than 2 cm.

0.1 cm.

N/A.

N/A.

Right lower lobe/Right upper lobe.

Right lower lobe pT3; Right upper lobe pT 2a.
ONO.

N/A.

RO, negative.

Right lower lobe IIB; Right upper lobe IB.

Emphysematous changes.

N/A.

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REF Ut

Source of Specimen.
A. N4k

B. N4R#2
C.N10RK

D. N/

E. N10L

F. N4c

G. N2R
H. Lung;right lower wedge lobe resection

|. Lung;rignt upper lobe wedge resection
J. Lung;right lung
K. N4R #3

L. N7#2
M. N7

Clinical History/Operative Dx:
Right lung cancer.

Intraoperative Diagnosis:

A. (FSA) Lymph node, N&h excision:
- Benign lymph node.

B. (FSB) Lymph node, N4R #2, excision:
- Benign lymph node.

- Benign lymph node.

Pa a md tno

D. (FSD) Lymph node, N7, excision:
- Benign lymph noae.

E. (FSE) Lymph node, N10L, excision:
- Benign lymph node.

F. (FSF) Lymph node, N4L, excision:
- Benign lymph node.

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

G. (FSG) Lymph node, N2R, excision:
- Benign lymph node.

H. (FSH1-2) Lung, right lower lobe, resection:
. Adenocarcinoma (two nodules).

|. (FSI) Lung, right lung upper lobe, resection:
- Adenocarcinoma.

J. (F SJ) Lung, right, resection:
- Bronchial margins free of tumor.

| Initially received in the fresh state for frozen section analysis is a single speckled,
darkened gray lymph node candidate, 7x 5x 5mm. The specimen Is bisected and submitted for frozen
section analysis. The residual frozen tissue is submitted Tor permanent sections in A’.

B. Part Bis labeled [i Initially received in the fresh state for frozen section analysis is a yellow-tan
portion of fatty soft tissue measuring 1.4 x 14.3 x0.5 cm. Examination reveals a6 x5x4mm lymph node

candidate. The lymph node candidate is entirely submitted for frozen section analysis with the resid ual
frozen tissue submitted in B1 for permanent sections. The remaining fragments submitted for routine

histology in Be.

C. Part C is labeled a5 MEE Initially received in the fresh state for frozen section analysis is a rubbery,
light pink to gray lymph node candidate, 42x1.0x0.6 cm. The specimen is serially sectioned and
entirely : i for frozen section analysis, with the residual frozen tissue submitted in C1 for permanent

sections.

D. Part D Is labeled I. Initially received in the trash state for frozen section analysis is a multilobular light
pink to darkened gray portion of soft tissue, 43 x1.0x0.5 cm. The specimen Is serially sectioned
demonstrating possible multiple lymph node candidates up to 0.6 cm. Tne tissue is entirely submitted for

frozen section analysis, with the residual frozen tissue submitted In D1 for permanent sections

E. Part E is labeled | Initially received for frozen section Is a light tan to speckled darkened gray
lymph node candidate, 43x 9x7 mm. The lymph node is trisected and entirely submitted for frozen

section a

E Part F is labeled ag Initially received ‘7 the fresh state for frozen section analysis Is a single fatty

yellow to darkened gray lympn node candidate, 5 x 4x3 mm. The lymph node is entirely submitted for
frozen section analysis with the residual frozen tissue submitted in F1 for permanent sections

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

G. Part G Is labelediim (Initially received in the fresh state for frozen section analysis Is 2 lobular
fragment of yellow-tan fatty soft tissue with speckled darkened gray changes, 8x6x 5 mm. The lympn
node is bisected and entirely submitted for frozen section analysis with the residual frozen tissue submitted

in G1 for permanent sections.

H. Initially received in the fresh state for frozen section analysis is a weage of lung, 13.5x4x3.9 cm and
25 grams. The oleura is glistening, light pink to deep ourple with two dimpled areas with underlying
palpable density. The surface of both sites are now marked blue and black, respectively to larger and
smaller nodules. The surgical margin of resection is closed by numerous surgical staples, involving

approximately 0.6 cm of the lung.

Sectioning through tne aforementioned sites of palpable density, reveals two irregular, NOWeVET, grossly
well-demarcated, light gray tumor nodules, 1.5 cm each. Both lesions abut the aforementioned, dimpled
oleura, and the smaller lesion grossly approaches within 0.8 cm of the surgical margin. The larger lesion
grossly approaching within 1.2 cm of the surgical margin. Representative section of each lesion Is
submitted for frozen section analysis (chuck/block) with the residual frozen tissue submitted in H1 for
permanent sections. Representative portion of the larger tumor Is submitted for Oncogenotyping studies
with additional representation of paranormal and normal lung tissue also submitted.

The remaining cut sections of the wedge of lung demonstrates spongy, light pink to slightly consolidated
parenchyma without additional nodularity. Representative sections are submitted for microscopic
evaluation.

Cassette summary: H1) frozen section, both smaller and larger nodules represented, H2-H3) larger nodule,
overlying pleura represented, four pieces, H4) margin previously involved with surgical staples adjacent to
the tumor, trimmed and submitted en face, H5-H6) smaller nodule including overlying pleura represented,

four pieces, H/) surgical margin formally involved with surgical margins adjacent to small lesion, trimmed
and submitted en face

| Part | is labeled right lung upper lobe wedge resection. Initially received in the fresh state for frozen
section analysis is a wedge of lung, 6.0x2.5x1.9 cm and 7 grams. The overlying pleura is glistening,
light tan to ourple-red with a slightly dimpled area with underlying palpable mass. Initial sectioning

reveals an irregular, nowever, grossly well-demarcated tumor nodule measuring up to 2.0 x 1.0 x 0.9 cm.
Representative section Is submitted for frozen section analysis with the residual frozen tissué submitted in
11 for permanent sections. Following initial sectioning, the pleura overlying the tumor IS marked blue. Tne
surgical margin adjacent to the tumor is involved with numerous surgical staples (0.6 cm), is now trimmed,
and the resolving margin Is marked black. The remaining cut sections of the wedge demonstrates a
spongy, light pink and tan parenchyma without additional discrete nodularity. Representative sections are

submitted for microscopic evaluation.

Cassette summary: |1) frozen section of tumor, 12-13) additional representation of tumor, five pieces, |4)
uninvolved lung tissue represented.

J. Part J designated right lung, frozen section bronchial margin. Initially received in a fresh state for frozen
section analysis is a right pneumonectomy, 187 x 16.3 x 4.2 cm, and 3/0 grams. The overlying pleura Is

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

glistening with a variegated light pink to ourple and speckled darken gray appearance. [ne upper and
lower lobes demonstrating two lines of surgical staples, 9.6 cm and 12.3 cm, respectively, corresponding to

the former wedge resections or frozen section analysis. A palpable mass Is not appreciated. Ihe central
main bronchial margin is 2.3 cm In diameter and extends out to 2.0 cm, the bronchial margin associated

with the upper lobe is 2.0 cm 'n diameter and extending out to 09cm. The upper and lower main lobar
tracts are partially occluded with hemorrhagic mucin plug, however, No gross tumor involvement Is

appreciated.

The bronchial margins Is now trimmed and submitted for frozen section analysis, with the residual frozen
tissue Submitted in J1 Tor permanent sections. Sectioning through the remainder of the lung demonstrates

partially consolidated, deep red, hemorrhagic lung parenchyma, with peripheral spongy, light pink and
tan tissue. The lobar and gross segmental tracts are tree of tumor involvement. No additional discrete

nodularity appreciated. Representative sections are submitted for microscopic evaluation.

Cassette summary: J1) bronchial margins, frozen section, J2) vascular surgical margins trimmed and
submitted, J3) five hilar lymph node candidates, peribronchial, J4-J5) upper lobe represented, three

pieces, J6-J7) lower lobe represented, three pieces

K. Part K Is labeled Received in formalin are multiple lobular and tattered fragments of fatty soft
tissue including lymph node candidacy, measuring In aggregate 5.5 x 2.8 x 1.1 cm. Examination reveals
six lymph node candidates ranging from 5 x 3 mm to 47 x13 mm each. The lympn node tissue
demonstrates softened light tan to speckled dark gray appearance. The lymph node tissue Is entirely

submitted for microscopic evaluation.

Cassette summary: K1) largest lymph node, sectioned and submitted, K2) two lympn node candidates, K3)
three lymph node canaiaales. —

L. Part L Is labele(—_—n Received in formalin are two tattered fragments of light pink to darkened gray

soft tissue including lymph node candidacy, measuring In aggregate 1.3 x 1 3x0.7 cm. Examination

reveals a tattered lympn “7 measuring up to 7 mm. The specimen is entirely submitted for

microscopic evaluation In L1.

M. Part M is labeledi—i—Received in formalin is a single tattered, darkened gray anthracotic lymph node
candidate, 11x7x5mm. [In imen fragments easily upon manipulation and !s entirely submitted for
microscopic evaluation in M1.

Microscopic Description:

A. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered. Sections show one lymph node with no metastatic carcinoma identified.

B. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered. Sections show one lymph node with no metastatic carcinoma identified.

C. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered. Sections show one lymph node with no metastatic carcinoma identified.

D. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered. Sections snow fragments of lympn node with no metastatic carcinoma identified.

E Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected In the diagnosis

rendered. Sections show one lymp

FE Microscopic sections have been examined. [ne microscopic

G. Microscopic sections have been exam
rendered. Sections snow one lymph node

4 Microscopic sections have D
rendered. Iimmunohistochemistry was
ER. Pax-8, Napsin-A, TTF-1, Villin an

Tumor cells positive: CK7, villin (patchy), CDX2 (patchy)

Tumor cells negative: CK20. S-100, Napsin-A, Te

| Microscopic sections
rendered.

J. Microscopic sections have D
rendered. Six lympn nodes are seen wi

K Microscopic sections have been exa
rendered. Seven lymph nodes are seen WI

h node with no metastatic carcinoma identified.

rendered. Sections snow one lymph node with no metastatic carcinoma identified.

ned. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
with no metastatic carcinoma identified.

een examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
performed with adequate con
d S-100. The tumor cells stain as followS:

trol for CK7, CK20, CK5/6, p63, C!

have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis

een examined. [ne microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
th no metastatic carcinoma identified.

mined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
th no metastatic carcinoma identified.

| Microscopic sections have been examined. In microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered. One lymph node Is seen with no metastatic carcinoma identified.

M. Microscopic section

rendered. One lymph n

s have been examined. Ihe microscopic

findings are reflected in tne diagnosis

ode is seen with no metastatic carcinoma identified.

OX2,

