SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

De-Identified Specimen Code:

Patient Age/Sex iF

SPECIMEN SUBMITTED:
Part A: LEFT UPPER LOBE
Part B: 10L

PartC: 11L

PartD: 12L

PartE: #5

Final Diagnosis

1. Left lung, upper lobe, lobectomy (A) - Adenocarcinoma, with solid, acinar, and
bronchioloalveolar cell carcinoma components (see comment).

- Centrilobular emphysema.

- Pulmonary hemosiderosis.

- Metastatic adenocarcinoma in peribronchial lymph nodes.

- Necrotizing granulomas in peribronchial lymph nodes.

2, Lymph nodes, 10L, 12L, excision (B, D) - Lymph nodes, negative for neoplasm.

3. Lymph nodes, 11L, #5, excision (C, E) - Metastatic adenocarcinoma.

Page 1 of 3
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis Comment:

Tumor Location: Left upper lobe
Tumor Size: 3.5 x 2.8 x 2.5 cm.
Vascular Invasion: Not identified.
Lymphatic Invasion: Pending

Bronchial Margin: Negative. Tumor cells are present within lymphatic spaces in the permanent section of the
bronchial margin.

Vascular Margin: Negative
Parenchymal Margins: Not applicable.

Pleura/Soft Tissue Margin: The tumor invades into the visceral pleura (A Movat stain on block A4 was
evaluated).

Pathologic Stage (AJCC): p stage IIIA (oT2a N2 MX)

Comment: Immunohistochemical stains (A4 and A13) show that the tumor cells are immunoreactive diffusely
to TTF-1 and focally to p-63. A Cytokeratin CAM 5.2 (A1) highlights the tumor cells within lymphatic spaces in the
permanent section of the bronchial margin.

ANALYTE SPECIFIC REAGENT (ASR) DISCLAIMER

This test was developed and its performance characteristics determined by rm 060Uttti<‘“i‘i;*S*~*@”

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has not approved or cleared
this test; however, FDA clearance or approval is not currently required for clinical use.

Procedure: ADDENDUM | Status: Signed Out
Text: GMS and Ziehl-Neelsen stains (A171) are negative for fungal organisms and acid fast
bacilli respectively.

Procedure: EGFR Mutation Analysis Re Status: Signed Out
Text: EGFR Mutation Analysis (Claien iis

Diagnosis of neoplasm: No EGFR alteration detected

Genotype result: Wild type (see complete Clarient report in Epic).

Page 2 of 3
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Intraoperative Diagnosis:
A. Adenocarcinoma, bronchial margin is negative for tumor

Clinical Diagnosis:
LT UPPER LOBE NODULE

Gross Description:

A. Received at the frozen desk for intraoperative frozen diagnosis labeled “left upper lobe" is a left upper
lung lobe measuring 15.0 x 13.0 x 3.0 cm and weighing 436.7 g after fixation with the bronchial remnant
(0.1 cm in length, 1.5 cm in diameter). In the apex of the lobe is a 3.5 x 2.8 x 2.4 cm tan, white, firm
mass with scalloped edges with cavitation. The mass is located 1.7 cm from the parenchymal line of
resection and 4.0 cm from the bronchial margin. The overlying pleura is retracted without gross
involvement. Also present inferior to the mass but not involving the mass are two subpleural
hemorrhagic areas measuring 1.2 cm and 4.1 cm. There are moderate emphysematous changes in the
remainder of the lung. Multiple anthracotic hilar lymph nodes are present ranging in size from 1.5-1.7
cm and appear grossly positive. Representative sections are submitted as follows: A1 bronchus margin
frozen section, A2 frozen section of mass, A3 vascular margins, A4 mass in relation to pleura (blue

ink), AS mass with line of resection (orange Ink), A6-A7 mass with adjacent uninvolved lung
parenchyma, A8 larger subpleural hemorrhagic area, AQ smaller subpleural hemorrhagic area, A10
uninvolved lung parenchyma, A11-A13 lymph nodes totally.

B. Received fresh labeled "10L" is an irregular shaped segment of tan-gray soft tissue measuring 0.9 x
0.8 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is totally submitted in formalin in one cassette.

C, Received fresh labeled "11L." is an irregular shaped segment of tan-gray soft tissue measuring 71.1 x
0.8 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is totally submitted in formalin in one cassette.

D. Received fresh labeled "12L" is an irregular shaped segment of tan-gray soft tissue measuring 0.8 x
0.3 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is totally submitted in formalin in one cassette.

E. Received fresh labeled "#5" are multiple irregular shaped segments of tan-gray soft tissue
aggregating to 2.5 x 1.3 x 0.7 cm. The specimen is totally submitted in formalin in one cassette.

Microscopic:
{Not Entered}

Page 3 of 3
