Acctl Reg


                                                       SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 DIAGNOSIS:
 A. Lymph node, level 9l, excision:
           Total number of lymph nodes received: One (1).
           Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: Zero (0).

 B. Lymph node, level 5, excision:
           Total number of lymph nodes received: One (1).
           Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: Zero (0).
           Frozen section diagnosis confirmed.                          .

 C. Lymph node, level 7, excision:
           Total number of lymph nodes received: Two (2).
           Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: Zero (0).
           Frozen section diagnosis confirmed.

D. Lymph node, level 5, #2, excision:
         Total number of lymph nodes received: One (1).
           Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: Zero (0).
           Frozen section diagnosis confirmed.

 E. Lung, left. pneumonectomy
           Tumor Characteristics:
 1. Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.
2. Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated.
3. Tumor site: Left upper lobe.
4. Tumor focality: Unifocal.
5. Tumor size: 4.5 em.
6. Visceral pleural invasion: Present.
7. Lymphovascular space invasion: Present.
8. Tumor extension: Tumor confined to the lung.
9. Treatment effect: Not identified.
           Surgical Margin Status:
1. Tumor distance from bronchial margin: 4.5 em.
2. Tumor distance from parenchymal (stapled) margin: Not applicable.
3. Tumor distance from pleural surface: Tumor present at pleural surface.
           Lymph Node Status (from Parts A-E):
1. Total number of lymph nodes received: Six (6).
2. Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: One (1).
3. Extracapsular extension: Present, with invasion of the adjacent artery wall.
           Other:
1. Other significant findings: None.
2. Frozen section diagnosis confirmed.
3. pTNM stage: pT2aN1MX.
 - - - - - - - - -----
       Current NCCN practice guidelines recommend determination of EGFR and KRAS mutation status in adenocarcinoma of lung to help select patients for
       Tyrosine·Kinas8 Inhibitor (TKI) therapy. EGFR-activating mutations have been shown to be significantly associated vlith response to TKls and KRAS
       mutations are associated with TKI resistance. They are mutually exclusive in NSClC. Additionally. recent data show that ALK (Anaplastic Lymphoma
       Kinase) gene rearrangements in adenocarcinoma of lung are associated with resistance to TKls and have favorable response rates to Crizotinib. the ALK
       inhibitor agent currently in clinical trials, Mutation analysis for KRAS and EGFR-TK domain and ALK gene rearrangement by FISH is available as the
       Lung Cancer Mutation Panel. Testing may be performed on paraffin-embedded tissue from the primary or metastatic tumor or pleural fluid cell block.
       These tests are available on request as a panel or as individual assays.



       CLINICAL HISTORY:
       Preoperative Diagnosis: Malignant neoplasm bronch/lung.
       Postoperative Diagnosis:
       Symptoms/Radiologic Findings:

       SPECIMENS:
       A. Level 9L left lung.
       B. Level 5 lymph node left lung.
       C. Level 7 left lung.
       O. Level 5 LN #2.
       E. Left lung.




       GROSS DEScpIPTlnM.
       A. Container A                   ~19L left received is a 1.2 x 1.0 x 0.3 CIll. portion of shaggy, focally anthracotic tissue. The specimen is trisected and
       submi~ted in ca~se!l~ _A1 labeled

      B. Conla                    ~" :'evel5 LN left lung received is a 2.2 CIll. in greatest dimensions portion of fatly to focally anthracotic tissue. A portion of the
      tissue is huullm~lCd Tor Trozen section. The frozen section remnant L<:. rA-suhmiUed for permanent in cassette 81 labeled                            The
      remaining tissue is submitted in cassette 82 labeled ~"""--">(':I ••

      C. Containe            ~ . Level? received are two up to 1.0 cm. in greatest dimensions anthracotic lymph nodes. Both lymph nodes are submitted for
      frozen section. Frozen section remnant is resubmitted for permanent in cassette C1 labeled

      D. Containe                   vel 5 LN #2 received is a 0.3 CIll. in greatest dimensions anthracotic lymph node witlt attached fatty tissue. The lymph
      node is subr.m~t::u lunrozen section. Frozen section remnant is re-submitted for permanent in cassette 01 labele(

      E. Container                      lung received is a 706.3 gram left pneumonectomy consisting of a 24.0 x 12.4 x 4.2 CIll. upper lobe and 19.5 x 8.7 x 3.9
      em. lower lobe. I ne pleura is predominantly smooth, tan to slightly violaceous, focally puckered near the mid aspect of the superior upper lobe; the
      pleura at this area is inked black. The lung parenchyma deep to the puckered pleura reveals a 4.5 x 2.7 x 2.0 em. indurated, fairly circumscribed, tan-
      white tumor which extends to the pleura and is 4.5 em. from the bronchial resection margin. The bronchial and vascular resection margins are free of
      tumor. At the hilum, there is a 3.8 em. in greatest dimensions indurated, anthracotic, lymph node vs. questionable tumor nodule. The lung parenchyma
      of the upper lobe is diffusely spongy, tan-brown, with focal emphysematous change. The parenchyma of the lower lobe is homogeneously spongy. tan-
      brown with no nodules or mass lesions. The bronchial resection margin is submitted for frozen section.

      Representative sections are submitted for Genomics studies in two cassettes l a b e l e _

      The frozen section rp.mnont ;~     "I..-:"~,.,I '"')r permanent in cassette E1 labeled 77539. Representative sections of the remaining tissue are submitted
                                      r .........

      in cassettes labeled                              lows: E2--vascular resection margins; E3 - E5 tumor to inked pleura; E6 - E7 representative nodule at
      hilllm' E8--representative remaining upper lobe; E9--representative lower lobe.




      INTRA-OPERATIVE CONSULTATION:
      FSA: Negative for 'tumor. no lymphoid tissue present

      FSC: Negative for tumor (0/2).

      FSO: Negalive for tumor (0/1)~

_,--",=,-""Sronchial margin - negative for tumor.
                                                     -~-~-~.-~