Final Surgical Pathology Report


Procedure:


Diagnosis
A. Lung, left upper lobe, lobectomy:
 Invasive moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma.
 Bronchial and vascular margins of resection free of tumor.
 11 hilar lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/11).
 Lymphovascular invasion by tumor is present.

B. Lymph node, level V, resection:
 Negative for metastatic carcinoma.

C. Lymph node, level II, resection:
 Negative for metastatic carcinoma.

D. Lymph node, level VII, resection:
 Negative for metastatic carcinoma.

E. Lymph node, level VI, resection:
 Negative for metastatic carcinoma.

Note: Many of the sampled lymph nodes also contained old hyalinized
granulomas.

Microscopic Description:
Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.
Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated.
Primary tumor (pT): Tumor measures 2.9 cm maximally and is confined to
the lung (pT1b).
Margins of resection: Negative.
Direct extension of tumor: Absent.
Venous (large vessel) invasion: Negative.
Arterial (large vessel) invasion: Negative.
Lymphatic (small vessel) invasion: Positive.
Regional lymph nodes (pN): All hilar lymph nodes and mediastinal lymph
nodes are negative for metastatic carcinoma (pN0).
Distant metastasis (pM): pMx.


Specimen
A. Left upper lobe
B. Level V
C. level XI
D. level VII
E. Level VI

Clinical Information
Lung nodule


Gross Description
A. Received fresh subsequently fixed in formalin labeled "left upper
lobe" is a lobe of lung which is heavily stapled and is 22.0 x 11.0 x
4.5 cm partially covered with a violaceous pink-tan smooth glistening
pleura showing diffuse stippling present. Specimen shows a 2.9 x 2.9 x
2.5 cm gray-tan tumor which comes within 0.3 cm of the pleura. There is
a the pleura in this area is inked blue. There is a stapled margin in
this area which is inked black. The tumor mass comes within 0.2 cm of
the surgical margin (inked black). The remainder of the pleura is
pink-tan and fleshy showing diffuse black stippling present. The tumor
comes within 5.5 cm of the hilar my margin. Possible hilar lymph nodes
which are black and are grossly identified. Rep. sections of the
specimen are submitted as follows; 1-Rep. section of tumor to surgical
margin and pleura, 2 through 3-representative section of tumor to
pleura, 4-Rep. section of tumor to normal, 5-representative section of
normal near apex, 6 - vascular and bronchial margins, 7 through 9 -
possible hilar nodes. RS 9
B. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled "level V" is
a 2.2 x 1.0 x 0.6 cm gray-pink irregular soft tissue fragment which is
bisected to show black cut surface. Specimen is entirely submitted in
one cassette. AS1
C. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled "level XI"
are 2 pink red irregular soft tissue fragments which show black
discoloration. These are 0.9 cm and 0.6 cm in greatest dimension.
Vessels and are entirely submitted in one cassette. AS1.
D. Received fresh and subsequently fixed in formalin labeled level VII
and a 1.4 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm black red irregular soft tissue fragment which
is entirely submitted in one cassette. AS1.
E. Received fresh and subsequently fixed in formalin labeled "level VI"
are multiple gray-pink irregular soft tissue fragments which have an
aggregate measurement of 1.5 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm. The specimen are entirely
submitted in one cassette. AS1.