Pre-Op Diagnosis

Right lung mass

Post-Op Diagnosis

Same

Clinical History

Nothing indicated on requisition
Gross Description:

Five parts

Container betes ne - level 9 lymph node" is a 1.0 x
0.8 x 0.5 cm nodular portion of gray tan fleshy tissue surrounded by

yellow adipose tissue. The specimen is bisected and entirely
submitted in a single cassette.
Container labeled '

ed level 8 lymph node" are 1.5 x
1.0 x 0.4 cm of tan gray to yellow fibroadipose appearing tissue

fragments which are entirely submitted in a single cassette.

Container labeled fn right lung" is 757 gram

previously partially sectioned portion of pulmonary parenchyma
grossly consistent with right lung. The specimen as received
measures 18.8 x 17.4 x 8.8 cm and has a bronchial margin across the
primary bronchus at a point 0.4 cm from the bifurcation of the
secondary bronchi. Surrounding the bronchial margin are seven well
defined gray tan to brown nodules measuring from 0.5 to 2.6 cm in
greatest dimension. The pleura is wrinkled, moderately anthracotic
streaked, and gray red to brown. On the middle lobe extending to
the upper pole and to the lower pole on the anterolateral aspect

there is an area which is previously sectioned to reveal a fairly

well defined lobulated friable necrotic gray tan lesion which

occupies much of the lower lobe and lateral lower aspect including
the lower lobe and middle lobe. This overall measures approximately

9.5x8.5x6.5cm. The lesion is seen at its nearest point 2.6 cm
from the nearest bronchial margin extending into the lower lobe.
The bronchial connection is grossly identified. The lesion grossly
appears to extend to within 0.1 cm of the basal, lateral, and lower
medial pleural; however, the lesion does not grossly appear to
extend through the pleura. The lesion abuts on the pulmonary
artery. The lesion grossly abuts the pulmonary vasculature and
adheres to it but does not grossly appear to extend through the
vascular wall. The specimen has been previously partially sectioned
to reveal the lesion for tissue harvest for genomic studies. Within
il are three tissue cassettes each labeled
The remaining uninvolved parenchyma is spongy
and congested with moderate anthracotic streaking. Adjacent to the
lesion extending to the pleura in several areas there are multiple
adjacent apparently separate tumor nodules with similar consistency
measuring up to 1.2 cm. Representative sections are submitted
labeled as follows: A - shaved bronchial margin, B through F -
individual peribronchial nodules bisected, G - whole smaller
peribronchial nodules, H - representative lesion to bronchial
connection, | - representative lesion to medial pleura, J -
representative lesion to basal pleura, K - representative lesion to
lateral pleura, L and M - representative lesion to pulmonary
vasculature, N - random lesion, O - representative uninvolved upper
lobe parenchyma, P - representative middle lobe parenchyma, Q -
representative lower lobe parenchyma.

Container beled level 7 lymph node" are three
fairly well defined nodules of rubbery gray brown to black fleshy

tissue from 0.9 to 1.6 cm in greatest dimension each. Each is
bisected and individually submitted in three cassettes.

Container labeled - level 4R lymph node" are 2.6 x
2.0 x 1.1 cm of shaggy to lobulated gray tan to yellow brown
fibroadipose and fleshy appearing tissue fragments which are
entirely submitted in two cassettes.

Microscopic Description:
Reviewed are slides labe |<
Final Diagnosis
Lymph node, level 9, right lung:

One lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/1).
Lymph node, level 8, right lung, excision:

Multiple fragments of benign lymph node negative for metastatic
carcinoma (0/1).
Lung, right, pneumonectomy:

Tumor characteristics:

Specimen integrity: Intact.

Specimen laterality: Right lung.

Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.

Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated.

Tumor site: Tumor involves middle lobe.

Tumor focality: Grossly distinct tumor nodules in same lobe (see
comment).

Tumor size: 9.5 x 8.5 x 6.5 cm in overall dimension.

Visceral pleural invasion: Tumor extends into but not through
elastic layer (PLO).

Lymphovascular space invasion: Present.

Tumor extension: Tumor confined to middle lobe.

Treatment effect: Not identified.

Surgical margin status:

Tumor distance from bronchial margin: 2.6 cm.

Tumor distance from pleural surface: Less than 1 mm.

Lymph node status:

Total number of lymph nodes received with pneumonectomy specimen

(excluding separately submitted lymph nodes): 10.

Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: 5
(5/10).

Other:

Stage: pT3N2
Lymph node, level 7, excision:

Metastatic carcinoma involving one of three lymph nodes (1/3).
Lymph node, level 4R, excision:

Multiple fragments of lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma:
0/7 PAS 9 SPC-A

Comments

Histologic sections from the 9.5 cm mass demonstrates a moderately
differentiated adenocarcinoma with a heterogenous appearance. In
areas, the cells are tall columnar with areas of necrosis. In other
areas prominent mucinous differentiation is seen with features
morphologically suggestive of bronchial alveolar type. A limited
panel of immunohistochemical stains is performed with working
controls and demonstrates the cells to be positive for TTF1 and CK7
and negative for CK20. These findings support the diagnosis of
primary lung malignancy.

An elastin stain is performed with working controls and highlights
rare neoplastic cells extending into but not entirely through the
elastic layer; however, based on size this is best classified as a
pT3.

A total of 22 lymph nodes are identified including all parts, six of
which contain metastatic carcinoma.

At the request of the undersigne gist, these slides have
been additionally reviewed by Dr ho concurs with the

diagnosis.
This report has been finalized at nei
This test was i racteristics

determined by has not been
cleared or approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The
FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary.
This test is used for clinical purposes. It should not be regarded
as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified

inical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of

qualified to perform high complexity clinical

laboratory testing.

Original report signed out by >

REVISION:

Stage changed to reflect the above.

