RIGHT UPPER LOBE

Clinical Details:
RUL tumour.

Three specimens received:

1: RIGHT UPPER LOBE

Macroscopy:
The specimen is labelled "right upper lobe" and consists of a lobectomy measuring 145 x 120 x 60 mm
in the inflated state. It is closed by a triradiate staple line. On the lateral aspect of the lung there are
multiple fatty adhesions. In the posterior segment there appears to be a hard subpleural mass
measuring approximately 53 mm in diameter. Adjacent to the bronchial resection margin there is a
hard lymph node mass measuring 32 x 30 mm. On sectioning these lymph nodes have a white, yellow
and black mottled appearance. On sectioning the mass measures 48 mm in diameter and it has a firm
sclerotic appearance. There are possibly lymph node metastases adjacent to this apart from those
adjacent to the bronchial resection margin. The surrounding lung is severely emphysematous with
bulla formation. The lesion is subpleural but extends probably within 12 mm of the bronchial resection
margin. Areas of necrosis are present within the tumour. Distal to the tumour there is evidence of
obstructive pneumonitis. [Bronchial resection margin-I A; nodal mass adjacent to the bronchial
resection margin 1B-1 C; other peribronchial lymph nodes-I D; tumour and pleura IE-IF; tumour and
adjacent pneumonitis-I G; inferior tumour mass with adjacent lymph nodes, uninvolved lung tissue-lI.]

Microscopy:
Sections show a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma. The lesion is subpleural and there appears to be
focal invasion into but not through the pleura. Fibrofatty adhesions are present on the surface. No
blood vessel or perineural invasion is seen but there appears to be focal lymphatic permeation. Several
peribronchial lymph nodes are involved by metastatic carcinoma. The tumour appears clear of the
bronchial resection margin and there is no definite involvement of the soft tissue resection margin
adjacent to the peribronchial lymph nodes. The adjacent lung shows severe centriacinar emphysema
with bulla formation and distal to the tumour there is evidence of obstructive pneumonitis.

2: NO.7 LYMPH NODE

Macroscopy:
The specimen is labelled ''No.7'' and consists of a nodal mass measuring 40 x 27 x 20 mm. On
sectioning there are firm white masses present within the blackened lymph node parenc

Microscopy:
There is extensive replacement of the lymph node by metastatic poorly differentiated carcinoma.

3: NO. 4R LYMPH NODE

Macroscopy:
The specimen is labelled "No. 4R" and consists of a piece of                       measuring 25 x 20 x 14
mm. On sectioning the lymph node contains firm pale nodules.

Microscopy:
Sections show extensive replacement of the lymph node by metastatic poorly differentiated carcinoma.

Summary:
Right upper lobe of lung and peribronchial and mediastinal lymph nodes:
1: Poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma; 48 mm in maximal dimension.
2: No blood vessel or perineural invasion present but lymphatic permeation identified.
3: Focal pleural invasion identified but clear of bronchial margin.
4: Peribronchial, hilar and mediastinal lymph node metastases.
5: T2N2MX

T-28000 M-81403 P 1-03000
Copies:




ADDENDUM REPORT

The tumour cells contain mucin in keeping with an adenocarcinoma but are negative for
neuroendocrine markers (chromogranin, synaptophysin, CD 56).

Summary:
Right upper lobe lung: Poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma.