SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:

PROCEDURE      DA i
                iTiEi:.iR
                        . iECiEIVED DATE :       REPORT DATE : • • • • •



COpy TO :



Pre-Op Diagnosis
Lung mass
Post-Op D iagnosis
Same
Clinical History
Nothing indicated on requisition
Gross Description :

Container labeled - - . .- right lower lobe of lung" is a
206 gram portion ~ monary parench y ma grossly
consistent with right lower lobe of lung . T he specimen as received
is 16.1 x 10.5 x 5.0 cm. The margin of resection is a previously
sectioned bronchi with multiple staple lines. The pleura is
wrinkled tan gray to brown and anthracotic streaked w ith a few
nodular gray ta n plaques up to 0 . 1 cm . Noted in the apparent
lateral aspect in the central portion of the specimen there is a
previously sectioned area of indurated umbilication measuring on
reconstruction approximately 2.4 x 2 .0 x 1 .8 cm. This has been
previously sectioned to reveal a lobulated gray tan to brown nodular
lesion which grossly appears to extend to but not through the p leura
in this area. This appears at its nearest point approximately 3 .6 cm
from the nearest bronchial margin. The remaining parenchyma is
slightly diffusely consolidated mottled gray tan to pink with
anthracotic streaking and focal areas of gross emphysematous change.
  No other gross lesions are identified. Also receiv~
conta iner are three tissue cassettes each labeled _ _
_               Representative sections are subm itted labeled as
~ aved apparent bronchial marg in , B through E - entire
remaining lesion and surrounding tissue , F - representative pleura
with nodular plaques , G - representative remain ing parenchyma .

Container labeled                                  lymph node right lung "
is a 2 .0 x 2 .0 x 1 .0 cm portion of tan yellow fibroadipose tissue
which has an embedded 1 .1 cm gray brown fleshy nodule. The nodule
is bisected and entirely submitted in a sing le cassette.

Container labeled ~ lymph node right lung"
is a 2 .3 x 1 .5 x 0.6~ portion of focally
shaggy fleshy gray brown to black tissue which on sectioning has a
mottled gray b lack fleshy cut surface. The bisected nodule is
entirely submitted in two cassettes.

Container labeled - - " " 'Iymph node right lung" are
2.9 x 2.0 x 1.3 cm ~w to brown black
fibrofatty tissue fragments with areas of fleshy gray black
discoloration. The specimen is sectioned and entirely submitted in
two cassettes.

Container labeled _                               lymph node right
lung" are 1.2 x 0.9 x 0.4 cm fleshy gray    ac   tissue fragments
entirely submitted in a single cassette .

Container labeled                       right lung middle lobe wedge"
is a 17 gram roughly wedge-shaped portion of recognizable pulmonary
parenchyma having an intact staple line at the margin of resection.
The specimen overall is 14.4 x 2 .5 x 1 .5 cm. The pleura is focally
shaggy mottled gray tan to brown with focal anthracotic streaking
and areas of focal fragmentation. On sectioning the parenchyma is
homogeneous and spongy with a slightly mottled tan brown cut
surface. No gross lesions or cystic structures are identified .




-
Representative sections are submitted in eight cassettes.




                                   examined . See diagnosis.

Final Diagnosis
Lung , right lower lobe of lung (lobectomy):
  Tumor characteristics:
  Specimen integrity: Intact.
  Specimen laterality: Right.
 Tumor s ite : Lower lobe.
 Tumor size : 2.4 cm in greatest diameter.
 Tumor focality: Unifocal.
  Histologic type : Adenocarcinoma (see comment).
  Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated .
 Visceral pleural invasion : Not identified , carcinoma extends up to
but not into p leura .
 Tumor extension : Not identified .
  Treatment effect: Not identified .
  Lymphovascular space invasion : No unequivocal Iymphovascu lar space
invasion identified .
  Surgical margin status :
  Bronchial surgical margin: No carcinoma identified .
  Pleural margin : No ca rcinoma identified.
  Distance of tumor from closest margin : Less than 1 mm from the
pleural margin.
 Lymph node status :
  One peribronchial lymph node demonstrating no metastatic carcinoma
(0/1) . PAS9
 Other:
  Areas of subpleural fibrosis with interstitial fibros is ,
interstitial chronic inflammation.
   PAS 4 ,6
  Emphysematous changes . PAS 4
  Focal subpleural bone formation . PAS 4
  pTN stage : pT1 b NO
Level 9 lymph node, right lung ( biopsy) :
 Reactive sinus histiocytos is and anthracosil icosis , no metastatic
carcinoma identified within one
 lymph node (0/1). PAS 4
Level 7 lymph node, right lung (biopsy ):
 Reactive sinus h istiocytosis and anthracosilicosis , no metastatic
carcinoma identified within one
 lymph node (0 / 1) . PAS 4
4R lymph node, right lung ( biopsy ):
 Multiple fragments of lymph node demonstrating reacti v e sinus
histiocytosis and
 anthracosilicosis , no metastatic carcinoma identified (see
comment) . PAS 4
Level 10 lymph node, right lung (biopsy ):
 Fragments of lymph node demonstrating reactive sinus h istiocy tosis
and anthracosil icosis, no
 metastatic carcinoma identified (see comment). PAS 4
Right lung middle lobe (wedge biopsy) :
 Subpleural fibros is and foci of interstitial fibrosis.
 Scattered areas of interstitial chronic inflammation .
 Emphysematous changes .
 I ntraalveolar macrophages.
 No carcinoma identified . PAS 4 ,6 SPC-A




Comments
This is staged as a pT1 b lesion based on the size of 2.4 cm in
greatest diameter. The final stage should be performed in
conjunction w ith the clinical information .

Sections of the tumor show a poorly differentiated large c e ll
carcinoma . A panel of immunohistochemical stains is performed
includ ing CK5/6, p63, TTF1 and CK7 (w ith appropriate positive and
negative controls). The neoplastic cells are positive fo r TTF 1 and
CK7. The neoplastic celis are negative for C K 5 /6 and p6 3. The
overall histolog ic appearance in conjunction w ith the
immunohistochemical stains is consistent w it h a poorly
differentiated adenocarcinoma . In add ition , some dense e osinoph ilic
collagenous scar tissue is present suggesting this may have
represented a so-called scar carcinoma . The carcinoma e x tends up to
but not into the viscera l pleura , being separated f rom t he p leu ral
margin by less than 1 mm . Clinical correlation and follow u p is
recommended .

At the request of the undersigned pathologist, t hese slides have
been additionally reviewed by            who c oncurs with the
diagnosis.

This test has been finalized at th~

This test was d M i ed  Mi  and
                              ve itsl o
                                      erformance c haracteristics
determined by                           Laboratory . It has not been
cleared or approve       y   e . . ood and Drug Adm inistration . The
FDA has determined that such clearance or approv al is not necessary .
 This test is used for clinical purposes . It should not be regarded
as investigationa l or for research . This laboratory is certified
~ linical Laboratory Improvement Amendments
~s qualified to perform high comple xi ty clinical
laboratory testing .
                                                     Of_
<Sign Out Dr. ~ign ~ tur,:! >