HISTORY
Lt upper lobe bronchial ca.

MACROSCOPIC
Four specimens received

1: The specimen is labelled 'left upper lobe' and consists of a lobe of lung (132 x 85 x
70), weighing 381 grams in the fixed state. Adherent to the visceral surface is a strip
of parietal pleura measuring 127 x 52 mm. Within the parenchyma is a large cream
tumour mass. The tumour comprises a relatively circumscribed cream nodule with
areas of necrosis (57 mm in maximum diameter), merging with an ill-defined firm
cream to tan area. The maximum diameter of the entire lesion (discrete nodule plus
ill-defined area) measures 91 mm. The tumour invades visceral pleura and is adherent
to parietal pleura. The discrete tumour nodule is 31 mm from the bronchial resection
margin. The ill-defined lesion is 5 mm from the bronchial margin and extends to the
hilar resection margin. Parenchyma distal to the tumour has a speckled yellow
appearance. The minimal amount of uninvolved parenchyma away from the tumour is
unremarkable. No other lesions are identified. [lA, bronchial resection margin; 1B,
hilar lymph nodes; lC, tumour with parietal pleura; 1D, discrete tumour nodule with
adjacent ill-defined lesion; IE, ill-defined area with adjacent uninvolved lung
parenchyma; IF, lesion involving bronchial wall, including hilar margin; 1G, lesion
with hilar margin; IH, parenchyma distal to tumour, with edge of tumour included;
11-J, uninvolved lung parenchyma]

2: The specimen is labelled 'left lymph node no 5' and consists of two separate pieces
of tan to grey nodal tissue measuring 15 x 11 x 12 mm and 12 x 6 x 4 mm. [Specimen
BIT: 2A, larger piece trisected; 2B, smaller piece bisected]

3: The specimen is labelled 'left lymph node no 10' and consists of a single piece of
tan to grey nodal tissue measuring 15 x 14 x 10 mm. [Trisected and BIT: 3A]

4: The specimen is labelled' left no 10 lymph nodes' and consists of two separate
pieces of nodal tissue measuring 14 x 6 x 6 mm and 7 x 5 x 2 mm. [Specimen BIT:



-
4A, larger node bisected; 4B, smaller node bisected]


MICROSCOPIC




DIAGNOSTIC SUMMARY: Moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma; Stage
pT3NO; focal involvement ofhilar soft tissue margin (Rl); extension into parietal
pleura.

CARCINOMA
1. Histological type: Adenocarcinoma; acinar and papillary patterns, with a smaller
component of lepidic and solid. There is extensive necrosis.
2. Histological grade: Moderately differentiated
3. Tumour size: 91mm (macroscopic)
-~~~.~---------------




          4. Pleural invasion: Tumour invades the visceral pleura and parietal pleura (Block
          1C).
          5. Vessel invasion: Not identified
          6. Perineural invasion: Not identified
          7. Carcinoma in situ: Not identified.

          MARGINS
          1. Bronchial margin:
           - Invasive carcinoma: Clear (at least 4mm)
          2. Vascular margin: Not identified.
          3. Other margins: Adenocarcinoma focally extends to the hilar soft tissue margin
          (lG).
          4. Residual tumour status : Rl.
          5. Contiguous structures: Present, parietal pleura.

          LYMPH NODES
          1. Peribronchial: There is no evidence of metastatic adenocarcinoma in hilar lymph
          nodes or in the other lymph nodes submitted (specimens 3-4).
          2. Mediastinal: Not involved (specimen 2)

          PATHOLOGICAL STAGE: pT3NO

          NON-NEOPLASTIC LUNG: There is lipoid pneumonia and pulmonary oedema
          adjacent to the tumour. Moderate emphysematous change is identified. Focally, there
          is eccentric intimal thickening of blood vessels.




          T-28000 M-81403 PI-03000