CGA- 44-2664




SPECIMEN
    A.   Right lower wedte
    B.   Right lower lobe
    C.  Node level 12
    D.  Node level 7
    E.  Node level 9
    F.  Node level 11

CLINICAL NOTES
    PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS:       Pulmonary nodule.

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
    AFS: Right lung wedge resection - Adenocarcinoma.

GROSS DESCRIPTION
             A.   Received is a container labeled with the patient's
             name, medical record number and "right lower wedge".    The
    specimen consists of a single piece of pulmonary parenchyma vd th a
    staple line along one edge and measuring 10 x 4.5 x 4 em. in
    greatest dimensions.   The staple line measures 8 em. in length.
The
    staple line is trimmed and the specimen is sectioned.   On cut
    section, there is a relatively well-circumscribed, rubbery tan
tumor
    mass, which measures 2.5 x 1.9 x 1.8 em. in greatest dimensions.
        This mass comes to within 0.5 ern. of the stapled surgical margin.
        RS-AFS, Al-AS - Tumor mass, entirely submitted; A6 - representative
        section of pulmonary parenchyma from adjacent to staple~ surgical
        margins.
                 B.  Received fresh labeled "right lower lobe" is a 137
gm. r
                 14.0 x 9.0 x 5.5 em. lobectomy specimen with attached 1.0
        em. in length 1 1.8 x 1.5 em. in diameter bronchial stump. Several
        soft gray black tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to
        1 em. in greatest dimension are recovered from the hilar region. An
        irregular 21.5 em. staple line is present along the medial aspect
of
        the specimen.   A staple line is removed and the underlying surface


GROSS DESCRIPTION
    is inked blue.   On sectioning no discrete mass lesion or
abnormality
    is identified subjacent to the aforementioned staple line or
    throughout the remainder of the specimen.    The parenchyma is
    spongiforrn tan red.  Representative sections are submitted in 8
    blocks as labeled.   RS-8

        BLOCK SUMMARY:  1 - bronchial stump margin; 2 - vascular margins; 3
        through 6 - random subjacent to staple line; 7 - random normal; 8 -
        five whole presumptive lymph nodes from hilar region.
C.   Received fresh labeled "node level 12" are two soft
              gray black tissues measuring 0.4 and 0.7 em. in greatest
     dimension which are submitted in toto. AS-1
              D. Received fresh labeled "node level 7" is a fragmented
              1.6 x 1.3 x 0.2 em. soft gray black-red tissue which is
     quadrisected and entirely submitted in one block. AS-1
              E.  Received fresh labeled "node level 9" s a slightly
              fragmented 0.6 x 0.5 x 0.15 em. portion of tan red-gray
     tissue which is submitted in toto. AS-1
              F.  Received fresh labeled "node level 11" are three soft
              fragmented gray black tissues averaging 0.25 em. in
     greatest dimension which are submitted in toto. AS-1



MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
             A.  The following template applies to the right lower
wedge
             resection of the lung.
    Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.
    Histologic grade:   Poorly differentiated.
    Primary tumor {pT}:   Primary tumor measures 2.5 em in greatest
    dimensions.
      The visceral pleura was disrupted prior to receipt in laboratory.


MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
      However,
      microscopically there is a suggestion of visceral pleural
      invasion.
    Margins of resection:  Uninvolved.
    Direct extension of tumor:   Not identified.
    Venous (large vessel) invasion: Not identified.
    Arterial (large vessel) invasion: Not identified.
    Lymphatic (small vessel) invasion: Not identified.
    Regional lymph nodes (pN):   See additional specimens (pNO).
    Distant metastasis (pM):   Cannot be evaluated by this specimen
    (pMX) .
    Other findings:  None.

              B. Sections of the right lower lobe completion lobectomy
              demonstrate interalveolar histiocytes and hemorrhage
     related to surgical procedure but no evidence of residual
     malignancy.  Tvm lymph nodes on the specimen are negative for
     metastatic disease.
              C.  The level 12 lymph nodes demonstrate four nodes with
no
              evidence of metastasis.
              D. The level 7 lymph nodes demonstrate seven lymph nodes
              with no evidence of metastasis.
 E.        The level 9 lymph node tissue demonstrates only
                   fibrovascular tissue.   No nodes are identified.
                   F.   THe level 11 lymph nodes demonstrate three nodes with
                   no evidence of metastatic disease.
       14,3x3,4x3

DIAGNOSIS
       A.     Lung, right lower lobe, wedge resection:
                Adenocarcinoma, poorly differentiated, 2.5 em in greatest
                dimension.


DIAGNOSIS
               Surgical margins uninvolved.
      B.     Lung, right lower lobe, lobectomy:
               No carcinoma identified.
               Two lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic disease (0/2).
      c.     Level 12 lymph nodes, resection:
               No evidence of metastasis to four lymph nodes (0/4).
      D.     Level 7 lymph nodes, resection:
               No evidence of metastasis to seven lymph nodes (0/7).
      E.     Level 9 lymph nodes, resection:
               No nodes identified.
               Fibrovascular tissue,
      F.     Level 11 lymph nodes, resection:
               No evidence of metastasis to three lymph nodes (0/3).