SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

COLLECTION DATE:

SPECIMENS:
1. F/S LUNG, LEFT UPPER LOBE WEDGE
2. LEVEL 5 LYMPH NODE, LEFT
3. COMPLETION LEFT UPPER LOBECTOMY
4. LEVEL 9 LYMPH NODE
SEE ADDENDUM


Reason For Addendum #1: Molecular Studies
Reason For Addendum #2: Molecular Studies
Reason For Addendum #3: Molecular Studies
Reason For Addendum #4: Biomarker Report

DIAGNOSIS:

1,3. LUNG, LEFT UPPER LOBE: WEDGE RESECTION AND COMPLETION
LOBECTOMY
- ADENOCARCINOMA, SOLID PREDOMINANT (3.2 CM), SEE NOTE.
- THE BRONCHIAL AND VASCULAR MARGINS ARE FREE OF TUMOR.
- SEVEN LYMPH NODES, NEGATIVE FOR CARCINOMA (0/7).

Note: The tumor consists of solid (90%) and micropapillary (10%)
components and measures 3.2 cm in greatest dimension
microscopically. Results of mutational studies will be reported in
addenda.

2. LYMPH NODE, LEVEL 5: BIOPSY
- TWO LYMPH NODES, NEGATIVE FOR CARCINOMA (0/2).

4. LYMPH NODE, LEVEL 9: BIOPSY
- TWO LYMPH NODES, NEGATIVE FOR CARCINOMA (0/2).
Specimens: 1: F/S LUNG, LEFT UPPER LOBE WEDGE
2: LEVEL 5 LYMPH NODE, LEFT
3: COMPLETION LEFT UPPER LOBECTOMY
4: LEVEL 9 LYMPH NODE

LUNG: Resection
SPECIMEN
Specimen: Lobe(s) of lung (specify)
left upper lobe
Procedure: Lobectomy
Specimen Integrity: Intact
Specimen Laterality: Left
Tumor Site: Upper lobe
Tumor Focality: Unifocal
TUMOR
Histologic Type: Solid adenocarcinoma
Histologic Grade: G3: Poorly differentiated
EXTENT
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension (cm)
3.2cm
Visceral Pleura Invasion: Not identified
MARGINS
Bronchial Margin
Bronchial Margin Involvement by Invasive Carcinoma: Uninvolved by
invasive carcinoma
Vascular Margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
ACCESSORY FINDINGS
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identified
STAGE (pTNM)
Primary Tumor (pT):
pT2a: Tumor greater than 3 cm, but 5 cm or less in greatest
dimension surrounded by lung or visceral pleura without
bronchoscopic evidence of invasion more proximal than the lobar
bronchus (i.e., not in the main bronchus); or Tumor 5 cm or less
in greatest dimension with any of the following features of extent:
involves main bronchus, 2 cm or more distal to the carina; invades
the visceral pleura; associated with atelectasis or obstructive
pneumonitis that extends to the hilar region but does not inolve the
entire lung
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN)
pN0: No regional lymph node metastasis
Number Examined
11
Number Involved
0


Pathologist


CLINICAL HISTORY AND PRE - OPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:
   with a 4 cm LUL mass.

MACROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received in four parts, each labeled with the
patient's name.

1. Part one is received fresh, labeled 'left upper lobe wedge at 084
b'. It consists of a pre-incised wedge biopsy of the lung measuring
9 x 3.5 x 2 cm. The stapled line measures 9 cm in length. The
stapled line is shaved and the pleura around is inked black. At the
pre-incised area there is a grey-white firm nodule measuring 2 x 1.1
x 1.1 cm located 0.4 cm from the stapled line margin. The remainder
of the parenchyma is pink-red and crepitant. Frozen section
performed on the nodule and resubmitted for permanent section.
Representative sections are submitted.

2. Part two is received in saline, labeled 'level 5 lymph node'. It
consists of two pieces of tan-brown soft tissue measuring 1.0 x 0.8
x 0.3 cm and 0.4 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm. Entirely submitted.

3. Part three is received fresh, labeled 'completion left upper
lobectomy'. It consists of a 176 gram left upper lobe of the lung
measuring 23 x 6.5 x 4 cm. There are two staple lines at the medial
aspect of the specimen measuring 11 cm and 11.5 cm. The staples are
removed and this margin is inked black. The pleural surface is
inked blue. The specimen is serially sectioned from superior to
inferior. There is no grossly palpable mass or lesion identified.
Representative sections are submitted.

4. Part four is received in saline, labeled 'level 9 lymph node'.
It consists of a piece of tan-brown soft tissue measuring 0.9 x 0.4
x 0.2 cm. Entirely submitted.




SUMMARY OF SECTIONS:
1A frozen section remaining of the nodule
1B-1E remaining of the nodule
1F stapled line margin
1G random section of the parenchyma
2A in toto
3A bronchial margins
3B vessel margins
3C possible hilar lymph nodes
3D one bisected hilar lymph node
3E-3J representative sections, including entire hilar region
4A in toto

SPECIAL PROCEDURES:
INTRA - OPERATIVE CONSULTATION:

1. Lung, left upper lobe, wedge resection:
- Adenocarcinoma




ADDENDUM # 1 FOR MOLECULAR TESTS:

EGFR, KRAS and ALK (FISH) was sent on 1                    for patient
       The test is to be performed on tissue from case
date              The case report, slides, and blocks for the cited
accession number were retrieved from archives. The pathologist whose
signature appears below reviewed the original pathology report,
examined candidate H&E slides, and selected block 1C appropriate to
the specifications of the ordered molecular analysis. 1 H& E and 9
unstained slides were prepared and forwarded to               where the
subject molecular test will be performed. An addendum report will be
issued when the results of this molecular test are available.

Addendum #1 performed by

Electronically signed

ADDENDUM #2:


EGFR Mutation Analysis
Referring Physician:

Body Site: Left upper lobe of lung

Clinical Data: Adenocarcinoma

RESULTS: No mutation detected.

INTERPRETATION: No mutations were identified in the sample provided
for analysis. Fewer than 5% of non-small cell lung carcinoma
patients without identifiable mutations are reported to be
responsive to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapies.


COMMENT: Forty percent (40%) or more tumor cellularity is optimal
for this mutation analysis. The sample submitted showed 80% tumor
cellularity upon pathologist review.

A frequently occurring sequence change 2361G>A (Q787Q) was
identified. This polymorphism is known not to have clinical
significance.

Mutations in the tyrosine kinase domain of the epidermal growth
factor receptor (EGFR) gene are reported to be associated with
differential responsiveness or resistance to EGFR tyrosine kinase
inhibitor (TKI) therapies. The objective response rate among
patients with a sensitizing mutation ranges from 55 to 82%.

This assay analyzes exons 18-21 of the EGFR tyrosine kinase domain;
based on the current literature, most mutations in non-small-cell
lung carcinoma (NSCLC) are expected to occur in these exons.
Mutations present in less than 10-20% of extracted DNA may not be
detected by this method. Mutation status in a sample may change
during tumor progression or the course of therapy; therefore, this
result cannot be used to infer the presence or absence of a mutation
in another sample or sub-sample obtained from this tumor.

This test is validated for non-small cell lung carcinoma. The
clinical significance and utility of this test in other tumor types
is unknown.

METHOD:
Tissue sections are reviewed by a pathologist and relevant tumor is
selected for analysis. DNA is isolated from the sample, quantified
and amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using primers to
exons 18-21 of the EGFR gene. PCR products are analyzed by
bi-directional direct DNA sequencing using capillary electrophoresis
and fluorescence detection. False positive or negative results may
occur for reasons that include genetic variants or somatic
heterogeneity of the tissue sample.




DISCLAIMER:
This test was developed and its performance characteristics
determined by               The laboratory is regulated under the
Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of               (CLIA) as
qualified to perform high complexity clinical testing. This
particular test is not considered a stand alone test and should be
used only in the context of other diagnostic tests or clinical
work-up related to treatment decisions.




Electronically signed by:




Addendum #2 performed by

Electronically

ADDENDUM #3:
MOLECULAR ONCOLOGY

KRAS MUTATION ANALYSIS


Referring Physician:
Body Site: Left upper lobe of lung
Specimen Type: Slides
Clinical Data: Adenocarcinoma

RESULTS: Wild-type gene.

INTERPRETATION:
No mutations were identified at codons 12 and 13 of the KRAS gene.

COMMENT:
Mutations in the KRAS gene are reported to be associated with poor
prognosis, and resistance to targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor
therapies in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). KRAS
mutations occur in 15-30% of NSCLC patients and are strongly
associated with adenocarcinoma and smoking history.

This assay analyzes codons 12 and 13 in exon 2 of the KRAS gene;
based on the current literature, approximately 98% of mutations are
expected to occur in these codons. The analytical sensitivity of
the assay is approximately 10%; thus mutations present in a low
percentage of cells may not be detected. This test is validated for
use in identifying KRAS codon 12 and codon 13 mutations in fresh,
frozen, or formalin-fixed paraffin embedded tissue. In particular
the test performance has been established in samples of colorectal
cancer and non-small cell lung carcinoma which harbor these
mutations, although several other tissues are also known to harbor
KRAS mutations (e.g. tumors of pancreas, bile duct, ovary, appendix,
etc.).

Analysis of EGFR mutation or gene amplification status may provide
additional information regarding this patient's probability of
response to targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapies, if
clinically indicated. See references.


METHOD/LIMITATIONS:
Tissue sections are reviewed by a pathologist and relevant tumor is
selected for analysis. DNA is isolated from the sample, quantified
and amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using primers to
exon 2 of the KRAS gene. PCR products are subjected to single
nucleotide primer extension to detect mutations at codons 12 and 13;
primer extension products are analyzed using capillary gel
electrophoresis and fluorescence detection. False positive or
negative results may occur for reasons that include genetic variants
or somatic heterogeneity of the tissue sample.




This test was developed and its performance characteristics
determined by                         The laboratory is regulated under
the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of              (CLIA) as
qualified to perform high complexity clinical testing. This
particular test is not considered a stand along test and should be
used only in the context of other diagnostic tests or clinical
work-up related to treatment decisions.




Addendum #3 performed by
ADDENDUM 3:



Fluorescence In-Situ Hybridization (FISH)



Body Site: Left upper lobe of Lung
Clinical Data: Adenocarcinoma


INTERPRETATION:
Negative for a rearrangement involving the ALK gene.

Probe #Nuclei Examined % Positive Nuclei %
Control values
2p23(ALK)V 100 0 <15.0
A total of 100 cells were scored.

FINDINGS: FISH was performed on paraffin embedded tissue sections
using dual color break-apart probe                       to the ALK
gene at 2p23. This probe flanks the entire gene. If a rearrangement
involving ALK is present, inversion or translocation, one of the two
probe signals separates as one red (orange) and one green signal. In
this specimen, separated signals were present in 0.5% of the nuclei
scored. Based on laboratory validation data, these results are
within the normal limits.

COMMENTS: Three to four copies of ALK were observed in 27.0% of
cells. This gain of intact ALK fusion hybridization signals
represents an aneuploid population with extra copies of chromosomes
2/2p ALK region. Additional copies of ALK are not uncommon in
NSCLCs, although the significance of extra copies of the ALK gene in
lung carcinoma is unclear at this time (



ISCN RESULTS: nuc ish(ALKx3 4)[42/100]

This test was developed and its performance characteristics
determined by                      It has not been cleared or
approved by the US Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. This
test is used for clinical purposes. It should not be regarded as
investigational or for research. The laboratory is regulated under
the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of              (CLIA) as
qualified to perform high complexity clinical testing.




Electronically signed by:                          Date:




Addendum #4 performed by

Electronically signed
The electronic signature attests that the named Attending
Pathologist has evaluated the specimen referred to in the signed
section of the report and formulated the diagnosis therein.

This report may include one or more immunohistochemical stain
results that use analyte specific reagents.
The tests were developed and their performance characteristics
determined by         Department of Pathology.

They have not been cleared or approved by the US Food and Drug
Administration.
The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not
necessary.