iical History/Diagnosis: Right Lung Cancer

Source of Specimen(s):

: Portion of 6th Rib

: Level 9 Lymph Node

: Level 4R Lymph Node

: Right Upper Lobe

: Level 4R Lymph Node

: Pre-carinal Lymph Node
: Level 7 Lymph Node

SNM BW to —

Gross Description:
Received in seven parts.
Source of Tissue: 1. Labeled # 1, "portion of 6th rib"

Gross Description: Received fresh in a container labeled " patient name and medical number,
portion of 6th rib". It consists of a fragment of rib
measuring 2.5 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm. There are no suspicious lesions or masses.

Representative sections are submitted in 1A following decalcification,
2 3 2k fe 9 oo 2k of 2 2 2 of oe oie 9 a oi oe afc ofc oo ae ak akc oc 9 oe a akc ok of ak kc of of oo ofa oe ok eo ake ae a ok 2k ofc fe a akc ofc oc oe oe ae ake ae of oe oe ake ae af 2k

Source of Tissue: 2. Labeled # 2, "level 9 lymph nodc"

Gross Description: Reccived fresh in a container labeled " patient name and medical number,
level 9 lymph node". It consists of a single gray-tan
rubbery lymph node measuring 1.3 x 0.7 x 0.7 cm. No suspicious areas are

identified. Submitted in toto in 2A.
KKK KKK EERE RRR KKK KKK KEK KKK EKA KEKE KEKE EER KKK EERE KKK KE KKK RAHKAKKKKHKEE

Source of Tissue: 3. Labeled # 3, "level 4R lymph node"

Gross Description: Received fresh in a container labeled " paticnt name and medical number,
level 4R lymph node". It consists of two black potential
lymph nodes measuring respectively 0.5 and 0.7 cm in greatest dimension.

They are unremarkable and submitted in toto in 3A.
22 9 fe oko oe ok ok eo ak ao co of 9 oe oi ako of cof ak C  oc o o 2f afea a 2 oc a a ofe  a okcafe ofe 2 2 of ok o o o C o oe a e k a ok ae a

Source of Tissue: 4. Labcled # 4, "right upper lobe lung"
Frozen Section Diagnosis: 4FS- NO TUMOR SEEN .

Gross Description: Received fresh from O.R. for frozen section
consultation in a container labeled " patient name and medical number, right
upper lobe lung". Jt consists of a 98-gram right upper lobe of lung
measuring 12.4 x 9.5.x 5.5 cm. The bronchial margin was procured for
frozen section and the residue is in 4FSA. The bronchial tree is opened
and is free of lesions and masses. A few hilar and peribronchial nodes

are found ranging from 0.4 up to 1.2 cm. The nodes are gray to black and
unremarkable. The vascular margin is likewise unremarkable. The plcural
surface is pink with a moderate amount of black anthracotic discoloration
and central laterally there is a marked area of pleural puckering and
thickening measuring 1.5 x 0.7 cm. Sections through this area disclose an
ill-defined gray-tan firm mass measuring 2.0 x 1.8 x 1,8 cm. This tumor
is 4.2 cm from the hilum/margin. Elsewhere the parenchyma is red, spongy
and has no additional lesions or masses. Representative sections are
submitted in 4A-E.

Designation of Sections: 4FSA- bronchial margin submitted for frozen
section, 4A- vascular margins, 4B- hilar and peribronchial lymph nodes,

4C- tumor in relationship to pleura, 4D- tumor, 4E- lung tissue uninvolved
KKKKRKKKKAKKEAAKKEKKKEKAKEKKAKKKAKAKKAA KAKA KKEEK HAE HKAK KK KAKAR KEKE A KKK KKK EKER EEK

Source of Tissue: 5. Labeled # 5, "level 4R lymph node"

Gross Description: Received fresh in a container labeled " patient name and medical number,
level 4R lymph node". It consists of two black to red lymph

nodes measuring respectively 0.7 and 1.9 cm in greatest dimension. The

larger node is bisected and the smaller node is submitted as is. Both

nodes are grossly unremarkable, Entirely submitted in SA.
2 RK ok oof 2 a 2 oko oe a a oo a SK ROR RK KEK AE EK RK KKH KEKE AE KEE KEKE EKER EAE

Source of Tissue: 6. Labeled # 6, "pre-carinal lymph node"
Frozen Section Diagnosis: 6FS- METASTATIC CANCER.

Gross Description: Received fresh from O.R. for frozen section
consultation in a container labeled " paticnt name and medical number,
pre-carinal lymph node". It consists of a single firm grayish black lymph
node measuring 2.0 x 1.3 x 1.0 cm. Sections disclose a black to tan firm
cut surface. Entirely submitted for frozen section and the residue is in
6FS.

24 2 2 23 a oe of a EK fe of oo ak fo a fe fe 2 oc oe oc 2c oe a ak eo ok ae oko fe 2 ok oe 9 oi a a oo a 2 oe of of oe oe ot ak akc oe ae oe a a oe oe ak ok

Source of Tissue: 7. Labeled # 7, "level 7 lymph node"

Gross Description: Received fresh in a container labeled " patient name and medical number,
level 7 lymph node", It consists of a single rubbery tan

lymph node measuring 2.8 x 2.3 x 1.0 cm. Sections show a soft grayish

black cut surface, Entirely submitted in 7A.
of Roi 9 ok oe oe oso 2 oe ok ak oko ee ake oe oe 2k of a oe oe oe af of oe oe 2 oe of oo a oo 9 oo ok oe oe oe oe oe oe a ot fe oe oe oe oe ooo 2 2 of oe 2 a ao of

Final Diagnosis:

1. Portion of 6th rib, resection:- Bone and hypercellular bone marrow with
trilineage hematopoiesis and lymphoid aggregates.

2. Level 9 lymph node, excision:
- One lymph node, no tumor seen (0/1).

3. Level 4R lymph node, excision:- Two lymph nodes, no tumor seen (0/2).

PMG Coa, sone Vie, lobectomy:
fa Lai lie adenocarcinoma with necrosis, 2.0 cm in
~~ greatest dimension grossly, with acinar growth pattern.
- Lymphovascular invasion is present,
- Tumor does not invade into visceral pleura.
- Bronchial and vascular resection margins are free of tumor.
- Seven hilar and peribronchial lymph nodes, no tumor seen (0/7).

5. Level 4R lymph node, excision:- Two lymph nodes, no tumor scen (0/2).

6. Pre-carinal lymph node, excision:
- One lymph node, positive for metastatic adenocarcinoma (1/1).

7, Level 7 lymph node, excision:
- One lymph node, no tumor seen (0/1).

- pll N2 Mx
