TCGA-44-2659




SPECIMEN
    A.   Left lower lobe
    B.   Left upper lobe
    c.   Level 7
    D.   Level 6
    E.   Level 5
    F.   Level 4

CLINICAL NOTES
    PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS:       Lung nodule.

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
    AFS: Left ~ower section: Adenocarcinoma, margin
                    lob
    negative.
    BFS: Lung     ~ledge                   resection - Adenocarcinoma, margin
    negative.     -

GROSS DESCRIPTION
               A.  Labeled with the patient's name, medical record number
               and "left lmo,~er lobe".  The specimen consists of a spindle
     ~vedge sheet fragment of pulmonary tissue \Vhich measures 8. 5 x 2 x 2
     em in greatest dimension. A staple line is present along the
     largest margin measuring 8 em.     The specimen is incised and is
found
     to contain a well circumscribed firm tan nodule which measures up
to
     1.7 em in diameter. A portion of this nodule is submitted for
     tissue procurement.    The remainder of the tissue is submitted as
per
    block summary:    AFS, Al, A2 - entire nodule following procurement;
    A3 - representative sections of pulmonary tissue; A4 - tissue from
    adjacent to staple line.
               B.  Container B is labeled "left upper lobe".    The
specimen
               consists of a single piece of pulmonary tissue which
    measures 10 x 5.5 x 5 em in greatest dimensions.      The specimen is
    incised and is found to contain a well circumscribed firm tan and
    black nodule which measures 1.8 x 1.5 x 1.5 ern.     Representative


GROSS DESCRIPTION
    sections as per block summary:      Bl-B4 - nodule entirely
    submitted; BS - representative section of adjacent pulmonary
tissue,
    B6 - tissue from adjacent to stapled surgical margin.
             c.       Received fresh labeled ''level 7'' is a 1.5 x 0.5 x 0.4
            em pink-red irregular soft tissue fragment v1hich is
   bisected and entirely submitted in one cassette.  AS-1.
            D.  Received fresh labeled "level 6" are two pink-tan and
            fatty tissue fragments which average 0.8 x 0.4 x 0.3 em.
   The specimenB are entirely submitted in one cassette.         AS-1.