TCGA-38-4625

   agnosis:
  ; Lung, right upper lobe, lobectomy.
   Poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma, tumor size 5.0 em in greatest dimension.
  Surgical margins free of tumor.
- No tumor seen in two hilar lymph nodes from lobectomy specimen.

B: Lymph node, station 11, removal.
- No tumor seen in one lymph node (0/1).

C: Lymph node, R4, removal.
- No tumor seen in one lymph node {0/1),

D: Lymph node, station 7, removal.
- No tumor seen in one lymph node (0/1).

E: Pleura, biopsy.
- Fragment of pleura with reactive mesothelial cells, fibrosis and acute and chronic inflammation, no tumor
seen.
Comment:
The tumor is markedly pleomorphic and high grade, with rare mucin positive cells. This favors the interpretation
of adenocarcinoma.          s.

Clinical History:
Right upper lobe mass.

Gross Description:
Received are five appropriately labeled containers.

Container A is additionally labeled "right upper lobe".
Specimen fixation: formalin

Type of specimen/parts of lung received: received is a right upper lobe, lobectomy

 ·-.ze of specimen: 14.0 x 9.5 x 2.8 em

Weight of specimen: 250 g

Other attached structures: none

Tumor location: peripheral

Tumor size and description: 5.0 x 4.2 x 3.6 em; tumor grossly appears as a circumscribed, white/tan, focally
softened, and focally hemorrhagic nodule, which is located under the peripheral pleura Relationship of tumor to
bronchus: 3.0 em from the closest bronchial margin, does not involve the bronchus

Distance of tumor to bronchial margin: see above

Relationship/distance of tumor to pleura: diffusely abutting the pleura, does not appear to be invading into the
pleura, however, the pleura over this nodule is red/brown, diffusely hemorrhagic and contains thick, gray/brown
adhesions.

Distance of tumor to other surgical margins: The tumor is 3.4 em from the closest stapled (blue inked) margin.

Presence/absence of satellite tumor nodules: absent

Description of nontumorous lung: The remainder of the specimen has a brown/red, smooth, spongy cut surface
with no other grossly identifiable lesions.

Al - bronchial and vascular margins, with one hilar lymph node candidate
A2 - tangential blue inked margin at closest approach to tumor
A3   remaining tangential surgical margin
A4 - tumor with pleura
A5,A6 - representative tumor
A7 ~ representative normal

Container B is additionally labeled "station 11". The specimen consists of a 1. 0 x 0. 6 x 0.2 em aggregate of
dark brown red tissue which is submitted in toto in block Bl .

. ontainer Cis additionally labeled "R4". It holds a 0.8 x 0.6 x 0.4 em fragment of pink/tan tissue which is
bisected. Cl,

Container Dis additionally labeled "station 7". It holds a 1.1 x 0.9 x 0.2 em aggregate of gray/brmm tissue
fragment. Dl,
Container E is additionally labeled "pleural biopsy at azygous vein". The specimen consists of a 1.1 x 1.0 X 0.1
em fragment of red/brown soft tissue. El,

Light Nicroscopy:
 'ght microscopic examination is performed by Dr.

container A:
Tumor histologic type (WHO classification) : adenocarcinoma

Tumor histologic grade (WHO classification) : poorly differentiated

Tumor size (greatest dimension): 5,0 em
Histologic assessment of surgical margins: surgical margins free of tumor

Pleural involvement: not involved

In situ carcinoma: not identified

Invasion:
angiolymphatic - not identified
perineural - not identified

J,ymph nodes (by node group) : all lymph nodes are free of tumor

Findings in nontumorous lung: focal post-obstructive changes