Date Coll:


                      SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT


SPECIMEN
    A. Level 11 node
    B. Level 9 node
    C. Level 8 node
    D. Level 7 node
    E. Level 5 node
    F. Left lower lobe

CLINICAL NOTES
    --

GROSS DESCRIPTION
             A. [The specimen is] Received unfixed labeled "level 11
             node" and consists of two pieces of black soft tissue
    measuring 1.5 cm. in greatest aggregate dimension. AS-1.
             B. Received unfixed labeled "level 9 node" and consists of
             a piece of black soft tissue measuring 0.5 cm. in greatest
    dimension. AS-1.
             C. Received unfixed labeled "level 8 node" and consists of
             a piece of red and black soft tissue measuring 1.6 cm. in
    greatest dimension. AS-1.
             D. Received unfixed labeled "level 7 node" and consists of
             two pieces of gray soft tissue measuring 1.6 x 1.5 x 0.3
    cm. in aggregate. AS-1.
             E. Received unfixed labeled "level 5 node" and consists of
             three pieces of red and black so   t   ue measuring 2 cm.
    in greatest aggregate dimension. AS-1.      :

            F. The specimen is received unfixed labeled "left lower
            lobe" and consists of a 193 gram lung lobe measuring 17 x
   11.5 x 3.5 cm. At the narrow and probable and superior edge of the
   specimen there is an area that is firm by palpation that measures 3
   cm. in greatest dimension on external palpation. There is some
   slight puckering of the pleural surface in this area. Additional
   sections after fixati       ortion of the specimen is taken for
   research purposes.      :

   Block summary: 1 - bronchial margin; 2 - next level of bronchus;
   3-6 tumor with adjacent stapled margin; 7,8 non-tumorous lung.


      :

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
    A. There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 3 lymph nodes
    pieces.
    B. There is no evidence of malignancy in a single lymph node piece.
    C. There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 5 lymph nodes
    pieces.
    D. Metastatic carcinoma is present in one of 2 lymph nodes. The
    metastasis measures 1.8 mm in greatest dimension. No extranodal
    tumor is seen.
   E. There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 3 lymph nodes.
   F.
            Tumor type: Adenocarcinoma
            Tumor grade: 2-3 of 3
            Mitotic Index: 24 mitoses/10 HPFs (1 HPF = 0.19 sq mm)
            Tumor size: 2 cm
            Bronchial resection margin: Negative for malignancy
            Pulmonary margin of resection: Negative for malignancy
            Pleura: Negative for malignancy
            Vascular invasion: Absent
            Attached lymph nodes: None
            pTNM Stage: T1 N2
            Non-tumorous lung: Focal endogenous lipoid pneumonia

   3x5,4


DIAGNOSIS
    A. Lymph node, level XI, biopsy:
          There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 3 lymph nodes
          pieces
    B. Lymph node, level IX biopsy:
          A single lymph node is negative for malignancy
    C. Lymph node, level VIII, biopsy:
          There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 5 lymph nodes
          pieces
    D. Lymph node, level VII, biopsy:
          Metastatic carcinoma is present in one of 2 lymph nodes
    E. Lymph node, level V, biopsy:
          There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 3 lymph nodes
    F. Lung, left lower lobe, resection:
          Moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma

      :
                       ---------
                         (Electro        ature)




                       --- End Of Report ---