DEPARTMENT OF PATHOLOGY AND LABORATORY MEDICINE




Date Coll:

SPECIMEN
    A. Level 9 lymph node
    B. Sixth rib
    C. Level 11 lymph
    D. Right lower lobe
    E. Level 12 lymph node
    F. Level 7 lymph node
    G. Level 4 lymph node

CLINICAL NOTES
    PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS:   Right lung mass.

GROSS DESCRIPTION
             A. Received in formalin, labeled "level 9 lymph node" is a
             0.4 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm slightly rubbery gray black tissue which
    is submitted in toto. AS-1.
             B. Received fresh, labeled "sixth rib" is a 15.5 cm
             slightly curved tan white portion of bone ranging from 1.2
    to 1.5 cm in diameter. The specimen is in keeping with rib.
    Representative sections are submitted in one block following
    fixation and decalcification. RS-1.
             C. Received in formalin, labeled "level 11 lymph node" are
             three slightly rubbery tan red-gray tissues in keeping with
    lymph nodes measuring up to 1.3 cm in greatest dimension. The
    largest tissue is bisected and the specimens are entirely submitted
    in two blocks as labeled. AS-2.

   BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Two whole nodes; 2 - bisected largest node.

            D. Container D is labeled with the patient's name, medical
            record number and right lower lobe. The right lower lobe
   weighs 549.3 grams and measures 18 x 13 x 10 cm. in greatest
   dimensions. The pleural surface is stretched taught over a rounded
   mass. When incised the mass measures 15 x 9 x 10 cm. in greatest
   dimensions. The mass does not appear to invade through the pleural
   surface. The center of the mass is markedly necrotic. The
   periphery of the mass is firm,tan and fleshy. The mass comes to
   within 0.5 cm. of the bronchial margin. The remainder of the
   pulmonary parenchyma is spongy and beefy red. RSD1 - Bronchial
   margin; D2-D7 - representative sections of the tumor; D8 -
   uninvolved lung parenchyma.
            E. Received in formalin, labeled "level 12 lymph node" are
            five slightly rubbery gray black tissues ranging from 0.25
   to 0.6 cm in greatest dimension which are submitted in toto. AS-1.
            F. Received in formalin, labeled "level 7 lymph node" are
            three diffusely cauterized rubbery gray black tissues
   ranging from 0.6 to 2.8 cm in greatest dimensio    The specimens are
   entirely submitted in three blocks as labeled.     .

   BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Two whole tissues; 2 & 3 - sections of largest
   tissue.
            G. Received in formalin, labeled "level 4 lymph node" are
            two rubbery gray black-tan tissues in keeping with lymph
   nodes averaging 0.9 cm in greatest dimension. The specimens
      ected and entirely submitted independently in two blocks.     .
MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
             A. The sections of the level 9 lymph node demonstrate 1
             lymph node with no evidence of metastatic disease.
             B. The rib is unremarkable.
             C. Level 11 lymph nodes demonstrate no evidence of
             metastasis in 5 lymph nodes.
             D. Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma
          Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated
          Primary tumor (pT): 15 cm., pT3
          Margins of resection: Negative
          Direct extension of tumor: Not identified.
          Venous (large vessel) invasion: Suspicious
          Arterial (large vessel) invasion: Suspicious
          Lymphatic (small vessel) invasion: Suspicious
          Regional lymph nodes (pN): Negative as described in other
          specimens (pNO)
          Distant metastasis (pM): Can not be evaluated by this
          specimen (pMX).
          Other findings: None

            E. There is no evidence of metastasis in five level 12
            lymph nodes. F. There is no evidence of metastasis in
            eight level 7 lymph nodes. G. There is no evidence of
            metastasis in three level 4 lymph nodes.



DIAGNOSIS
    A. Level 9 lymph node, resection:
          No evidence of metastasis in one lymph node (0/1).
    B. Sixth rib, resection:
          Unremarkable bone present.
    C. Level 11 lymph nodes, resection:
          No evidence of metastasis to 5 lymph nodes (0/5).
    D. Lung, right lower lobe, lobectomy:
          Adenocarcinoma, poorly differentiated, 15 cm. in greatest
          dimension, surgical margins uninvolved.
    E. Level 12 lymph nodes, resection:
          No evidence of metastasis to 5 lymph nodes (0/5).
    F. Level 7 lymph nodes, resection:
          No evidence of metastasis to 8 lymph nodes (0/8).
    G. Level 4 lymph nodes, resection:
          No evidence of metastasis to 3 lymph nodes (0/3).




                       --- End Of Report ---