SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

DIAGNOSIS:
Lung , right upper lobe, lobectomy:
           Tumor characteristics :
1. Histologic type: adenocarcinoma.
2. Histologic grade: 2 (moderately differentiated).
3. Tumor site: Subpleural .
4. Tumor fecality: Unifocal.
5. Tumor size: 2.5 c 1.5 x 1.5 em.
6. Visceral tumor invasion: No
7. Lymphovascular space invasion: Not identified.
8 . Tumor extension not applicable.
9. Treatment effect not applicable.
           Surgical Margin Status:
1. Tumor distance from bronchial margin: greater than 1 em.
2. Tumor distance from parenchymal stapled margin: less than 0.1 em (see comment).
3. Tumor distance from pleural surface: 0.4 em.
           Lymph node status :
1. Total number of lymph nodes received (indudes part B below): Seven .
2. Number containing metastatic carcinoma: Zero .
           Other significant findings:
1. pTNM stage: pT1 b,NO.

B. Lymph node, level 9, excision:
         Negative for malignancy, one node.




                                                 Electronic Signature:
COMMENTS:
The patient's history of prior renal cell carcinoma is noted. There is, however, no material identified in our files for review and comparison . Accordingly,
a limited series of immunohistochemical stains is perfonned on a representative block of a malignancy. Sections are examined along with appropriately
staining positive and negative controls , with the following results:
           CK7- Positive.
           CK20 - Negative.
           TTF1- Positive.
           RCC- Negative.

Histologically, the malignancy does not resemble a typical renal cell carcinoma , and the staining pattern above essentially excludes the possibility of a
metastasis from the kidney, and is typical of a primary pulmonary adenocarcinoma.

The malignancy grossly approaches the stapled parenchymal surgical margin to within less than 0.1 em. Following removal of the staple line, the inked
margin in this site is involved by malignancy. It is noted , however, that the nature of the stapling procedure itself precludes sampling of the true final
surgical margin. Clinical correlation is suggested .
 CLINICAL HISTORY:
                                                                               ,   ..
 Preoperative Di"grl0,;i5:                     with history of renal cell carcinoma , with a right upper lobe lesion suspicious for non-small cell carcinoma of
 the lung
 Postoperative Diagnosis:
 Symptoms/Radiologic Findings:

 SPECIMENS:
 A. Right upper lobe
 B. Level 9 lymph node


"-.,   c. >   •         _ ' .                                         SPECIMEN DATA                                   •     .    _.         .•.• .          -.'
 GROSS DESCRIPTION:
 The specimen is received in two formalin-filled containers labeled with the patient's name.

 A. Container A is additionally labeled "right upper lobe," and contains a 16.0 x 8.5 x 2.8 em, lung lobe. The pleura is purple-pink, moderately anthracotic
 and glistening. A 10.0 x 3.5 em, area of exposed red-pink mucosa is present. Within this area are multiple exposed segments of bronchi and
 vasculature. Extending from both ends of this area are two serpiginous staple lines, each measuring 5.5 an in greatest dimension. The staple line is
 removed and the underlying parenchyma is inked black. Additionally, the exposed bronchi and vascular margins are taken en face, and the exposed
 parenchyma is also inked black.. The bronchi feature yellow-tan , striated endothelium with no discrete lesions. Sectioning reveals a 2.5 x 1.5 x 1.5 em ,
 well circumscribed , yellow-tan, firm glistening mass that resides 0.4 em below the blue-inked pleura , and approaches to within less than 0.1 cm of the
 closest stapled parenchymal margin. The remainder of the cut surface is pink-tan and focally congested. No additional lesions are identified. Seven iU-
 defined black anthracotic nodules are identified consistent with p;tr~hrnnrhi::tl l\fIT\ph nodes. They range from 0.1 up to 0.3 em in greatest dimension.
 Representative sections are submitted in cassettes A 1-8, labeled                    designated as follows: 1 - bronchial and vascular margins, en face; 2-3 -
 mass to inked parenchymal margin, perpendicular; 4-5 - sections to include mass, closest inked parenchymal margin, and inked pleura (perpendicular);
 6 - remainder of mass to inked pleura, perpendicular; 7 - most normal-appearing parenchyma; 8 - aggregate of whole possible lymph nodes.

 Additionally, a yellow, a green and a blue cassette are submitted with this part, all labele_

 8. Container B is additionally labeled level 9 lymph node and contains a 0.7 x 0.7 x 0.6 em , gray-black, nodule consistent with anthracotic lymph node.
               is bisected and entirely submitted in cassette B, labeled