HISTORY
Right upper lobectomy.

MACROSCOPIC
Two specimens submitted.

1: The first specimen is labelled "right upper lobe" and consists of a right upper lobe of lung measuring
115 x 100 x 35 mm. A solid mass is palpable in the upper lateral segment of the lung (segment 2). The
pleura overlying this mass appears puckered and there is an attached piece of pleura measuring
approximately 120 mm in length. On sectioning of the lung a tumour measuring 28 x 25 x 40 mm is
seen. It has a cream and grey-black cut surface. The margins of the tumour appear ilTegular. The
tumour abuts the anterior pleura but is well clear of the posterior pleural surface. There is no gross
bronchial involvement seen. The remaining lung tissue appears emphysematous. [lA, bronchial
resection margins; IB, parabronchiallymph nodes; IC-IE, RS of tumour; IF, uninvolved lung.]

2: The second specimen is labelled "No. 10 lymph node" and consists of two pieces of darkly
pigmented tissue resembling a lymph node and measuring in aggregate 12 x 12 x 5 mm. [Wrapped and



MICROSCOPIC
I: Sections show a well differentiated to moderately differentiated mucin-secreting adenocarcinoma
"vith a predominant papillary and lepidic architecture. Centrally tumour acini infiltrate dense
fibroelastotic scar tissue. The tumour abuts and focally invades into the overlying pleura. Definite
vascular, lymphatic or perineural invasion is not identified. Adjacent lung parenchyma shows bullous
emphysema and organising pneumonia. The bronchial resection margin is clear of malignancy and
shows no evidence of squamous metaplasia or dysplasia. Peribronchial lymph nodes do not contain
metastatic adenocarcinoma.

2: Sections show lymph nodes in which there is no evidence of malignancy.

SUMMARY
Right upper lobectomy and lymph node sampling:
Well to moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, 40 mm in diameter.
Pleural invas ion present.
No vascular, lymphatic or perineural invasion found.
No lymph node metastases.
Pathological stage T2 NO.




T-28000 M-81403 PI-03000