UUID: 3542521A - EA16 -4CD1- A61A-1F83AE928FC9
                                                                                     TCGA-55-A48Y-e1A-PR                                            Redacted
                                                                           Ii i iI ^^ III I II I IIIII I II II II ^^ I IIII(III( ( II ( IIIII(I I (IIIIII III ^^I ICI
                                                                           I I I I l1111111111111111111111I I I I I I I I I I11111111111
                                                                           III ^II^^Uh((II((IIIIIIIIIIIIUhI((IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIHIIIII
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:

PROCEDURE DATE:           RECEIVED DATE:          REPORT DATE:



COPY TO.




                                        CSC -P    occ, cc \ nv            c ^``^                5
 Pre-Op Diagnosis                                                  $
Left lung mass
Post-Op Diagnosis
Same as above
Clinical History
N o thi ng i ndicated
Gross Description:
Five parts

Container labeled   'MMUMMM           1 - level 9 lymph node left lung"
has a 1.8 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm fl es hy gray-tan to pink nodule surrounded
by a small amount of yellow adipose tissue. The specimen is bisected
and entirely submitted in a single cassette.

Container labeled '          M^^ 2 - level 10 lymph node left
lung" has two nodular portions of rubbery gray-tan fleshy tissue
measuring 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm and 2.0 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm. These are
received along with 1.3 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm of similar fleshy tissue
fragments with associated yellow adipose tissue . The smaller nodule
is bisected and submitted labeled A. The larger nodule is bisected
and submitted labeled B. Remaining tissue fragments are submitted
labeled C.

Container labeled                    3 - left lower lobe" has a 231
gram previously partially inked, partially sectioned portion of
recognizable pulmonary parenchyma grossly consistent with left lower
lobe of lung. The specimen as received on reconstruction is 15.6 x
9.6 x 5.9 cm and has as the margin of resection the stapled
bifurcation of the tertiary bronchi, as well as several additional
vascular and parenchymal staple lines. Adjacent to the bronchus is a
1.5 x 1.0 x 0.7 cm lobulated fleshy gray-black nodule. The pleura is
slightly wrinkled gray-tan to pink. On the upper anterolateral
aspect at a point approximately 4.0 cm from the upper portion of the
specimen there is an area of indurated umbilication over an area of
6.5 cm extending onto the lateral aspect. The anterior extending to
the lateral aspect of this indurated pleura is overlaid by gray-tan
fibrinous material. The specimen has been previously partially
sectioned within this area to reveal a well defined 5.5 x 5.5 x 5.4
cm lobulated intraparenchymat gritty gray-tan fibrotic lesion. This
 extends grossly focally to within 0.2 cm of the pleura. On
 sectioning, this has a necrotic gray-tan focally
anthracotic-streaked fibrotic cut surface and grossly appears at its
           int4 ' 11 -m Uno tha hrnnr:hinl margin. A bronchial
connection is grossly identified. On the medial aspect of the
specimen the pleura is taut over the lesion. In the area of the
pleural staple line margins the lesion grossly appears to focally
extend to within 0.2 cm of these staple lines. The lesion grossly
abuts and focally compresses several large vascular structures but
does not grossly appear to extend into them, The specimen is
 received after tissue harvest for genomic study. Within the specimens
 container are two tissue cassettes labeled'
 remaining parenchyma is spongy, partially collapsed, gray-pink to
 red with moderate anthracotic streaking and areas of apparent gross
 emphysematous change. Representative sections are submitted labeled
 as follows: A - shaved bronchial margin; B - peribronchial nodule,
 sectioned; C - lesion with bronchial connection; D - lesion to
 fibrinous material on pleura; E-H - lesion and surrounding tissue; I
 - random uninvolved parenchyma.
 Container labeled '4 - level 6 lymph node left lung"
 has a 1.0 x 0.8 x 0.& cm nodular rtion of partially fragmented
 gray-brown fleshy tissue with a small amount of associated yellow
 adipose tissue. This is received along with a 1.2 x 1.0 x 0.3 cm
 portion of yellow adipose tissue with a few adherent fragments of
 gray-black fleshy tissue up to 0.3 cm. The nodule is bisected and
 the specimen entirely submitted in a single cassette.

  Container labeled                      level 5 lymph node left lung"
  has a 1.6 x 1.2 x 0.4 cm nodular portion of gray-pink fleshy tissue
  which is bisected and entirely submitted in a single cassette.



  Microscopic Description:
  Reviewed are slides labeled ^An elastic stain is performed
  (with working control) and supports the following diagnosis.

  Final Diagnosis
  Lymph node, level 9 , left lung , biopsy:
   One lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma (0i1        ).
  Lymph nodes , level 10, left lung , biopsy:
   Three lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/3).

   Lung , left lower lobe, lobectomy:
   Tumor characteristics:
    Specimen integrity : Intact.
    Specimen laterality : Left lower lobe.
    Histologic type. Adenocarcinoma.
    Histologic grade : Moderately differentiated ( grade 11).
    Tumor site: Left lower lobe.
    Tumor focality : Unifocal.
    Tumor size: 5.5 x 5 . 5 x 5.4 cm.
    Visceral pleural invasion : Tumor penetrates through elastic layer
into pleura but not to
  pleural surface.
  Lymphovascular space invasion : No unequivocal lymphovascular spacf
invasion identified.
  Tumor extension : Confined to lung.
  Treatment effect: Not identified/not known.
 Surgical margin status:
  Tumor distance from bronchial margin : 1.6 cm.
  Tumor distance from parenchymal margin: 0.2 cm.
  Tumor distance from pleural surface : 0.2 cm.

 Total number of lymph nodes received (with lobectomy specimen
only): One.
 Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: Zero
(0/1); seven lymph
  nodes received with all specimen parts (0/7).
 Other
 Stage: pT2b NO
Lymph node, level 6 , left lung, biopsy:
 One lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/1).
Lymph node, level 5, left lung, biopsy:
 One lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/1). PAS 9
SPC-A



Comments
An elastic stain is performed (with working controls) and supports
the above diagnosis.

At the request of the undersigned pathologist , these slides have
been additionally reviewed by Or.;         , who concurs with the
diagnosis.

This report has been finalized at the



<Sign Out Dr. Signature>