Scag eae SR ere HE PEE es DA PS ae as ae ae

A. Level Vil lymph node, excision:
One lymph node positive for metastatic carcinoma.

es)

. Lung, upper lobe, excision:
Tumor Characteristics:

. Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.

. Histologic grade: Grade II-IIl, moderate to poorly differentiated.

. Tumor site: Left upper lobe.

Tumor focality: Unifocal.

. Tumor size: 1.9x 1.8x 1.5 cm.

. Visceral pleural invasion: Not identified.

. Lymphovascular space invasion: Not identified.
Surgical Margin Status:

1. Tumor distance from parenchymal margin: 2.5 cm.

2. Tumor distance from pleural surface: 0.1 cm.

MOO WRN =

©

Leve! V and VI lymph nodes, excision:
Four lymph nodes, negative for metastatic disease.

CLINICAL HISTORY:

Preoperative Diagnosis: po
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptoms/Radiologic Findings:

SPECIMENS:

A. Level Vil lymph node

B. Left upper lobe

C. Level V and VI lymph nodes

GROSSDESCRIPTION; «=
The specimen is received in three formalin-filled containers labeled with the patient’s name | P siesta

A. Container A is additionally labeled level VII lymph node, and contains a 2.2 x 1.3 x 1.0 cm, yellow-tan, firm rubbery nodule consistent with lymph
node. The specimen is bisected and entirely submitted in cassette A1, labeled

B. Container B is additionally labeled left upper lobe and contains a 20.0 x 9.0 x 4.5 cm, purple-gray lung lobe. The pleura is remarkable fora 2.5x1.4x
0.5 cm. area of umbilication which is inked blue. A 10.5 x 4.0 cm area of exposed parenchyma is identified. Within this area are multiple segments of

nding
s were taken en face, and the surrouncn
-white, mass that approaches to within less
rface is comprised of beefy red,

nchial and vascular margin

: i i e bro
ture. Discrete masses are not identified. Th were a\-defined, gray

is i i i ‘ally sectioned to reveal a 1.9
obey glean eae ne nopeuers ae of the inked parenchymal margin. The remainder of the cut su

: | i t identified. Representative sections
m of the inked pleura and to with nanae. Discrete lymph nodes are not id Represe ectons
anract glee ee aoe — Fare on thom: Bt -2 ~— en face vascular and bronchial margins, 3 — inked par y

a )

erencie tii Three genomics cassettes are also submitted, each labeled

exposed bronchi and vascula

ihia hank ” °
palpation, four firm fatty oces*"'*' uaued ooollows: C1 — three whole possible lymph n odes: C2

