TGGA-38-4629

 liagnosis:
 : Lung, right upper lobe and contiguous ribs 3 and 4, lobectomy and chest wall resection.
- Adenocarcinoma, poorly differentiated, 5.5 em diameter, Nith extension through pleura at site of pleural
adhesions; bronchial and final chest wall surgical margins no"t involved.
- Lymph nodes, peribronchial - No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/1).
- Patchy acute bronchopneumonia with subpleural fibrous plaque in uninvolved lung,

B: Station 7 lymph node, removal.
-No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/3 fragments).

c: Nodule, right middle lobe, wedge biopsy.
- No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/1) ,

D: R4 lymph nodes, removal.
~ No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/9 fragments).



Conunent:
None.

Clinical History:
right upper lobe mass, undergoes right thoracosectomy.

Gross Description:
Received are four appropriately containers.

Container A:
Specimen fixation: formalin

Type of specimen/parts of lung received: right lung upper lobe with attached right rib #3 and #4

Size of specimen: 15 x 12 x 4 em and attached rib and soft tissue measures 11 x 5 x 3.5 em

Weight of specimen: 530 g

 ;her attached structures: right #3 and ll4 ribs and chest wall soft tissue

Tumor location: tumor is located peripherally of upper portion of the right upper lobe

Tumor size: 5.5 x 3.5 x 3.0 em, tumor is grossly white/gray and infiltrative involving the pleura and extending
to the chest wall

Relationship of tumor to bronchus: tumor is at least 5 em away from bronchus

Distance of tumor to bronchial margin: at least 5 em
Relationship/distance of tumor to pleura: tumor grossly invades through the pleura
into adjacent chest wall

Distance of tumor to other surgical margins: 2.8 em from posterior rib resection margin, at least 5 em away from
anterior rib resection margin. The closest to lung resection margin is 3.5 em.

Presence/absence of satellite tumor nodules: present, one satellite nodule is
identified measuring 2.5 x 0.8 x 2.2 em, grossly it is 2.2 em away from main tumor mass

Involvement of attached structures by tumor: bronchus, pulmonary resection margin and attached chest wall margin
is grossly not involved by tumor

Description of nontumorous lung: post obstructive changes


Block Summary:
Al ~ bronchial and pulmonary vessel margin
A2 1 A3 - pulmonary resection margin after removal of surgical staples
A4-A5 - tumor with involved pleura
A6-A8 ~ representative section of the main tumor mass
A9-Al0 - tumor with attached chest wall
All - representative section from satellite nodule
A12 - anterior chest wall soft tissue resection margin
 1
   3 ~posterior chest wall soft tissue margin
   4 - two lymph node candidates from hilar region
AlS - anterior tip margin
A16 - posterior rip margin
A17~A18 ~ tumor with chest wall
Al9 - non-tumoral lung section
Container B is additionally labeled "station 7". It consists of a brmm/black, triangular shaped soft tissue
specimen. Bisected and submitted in Bl,    .

Container cis additionally labeled "right middle nodule". It consists of a black/brown, 0.8 x 0.4 x 0.4 em
 r>dule. Bisected and submitted in Cl,

.... ontainer Dis additionally labeled "R4". It holds a 3.4 x 1.5 em, yellow/black soft tissue fragment. There are
nine lymph node candidates identified ranging from 0.3 to 1.1 em in greatest dimension. All lymph node
candidates rase submitted in Dl-D3.

Dl - four lymph node candidates
D2 - two lymph node candidates
D3 - three lymph node candidates

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr.

Tumor histologic type (WHO classification): Adenocarcinoma (mucin {+), TTFl (+), calretinin (-))

'l'umor histologic grade {WHO classification} : poorly differentiated

Tumor size (greatest dimension): 5.5 em diameter

Histologic assessment of surgical margins: Bronchial and pulmonary vascular 1nargins not involved, chest wall
bone and soft tissue margins not involved.

Pleural involvement: Pleural adhesions are present overlying carcinoma, and pleural involvement is present.
In situ carcinoma: not identified

Invasion:
angiolymphatic - not identified
perineural - not identified

Lymph nodes (by node group) : 0/14 total (see diagnoses for locations}

Extracapsular extension of tumor in lymph nodes: n/a

Findings in nontumorous lung:
~~tchy acute bronchopneumonia (A8), subpleural fibrous scar with smoking associated changes (All).