HISTORY
Histopathology of right upper lobe and chest wall resection for cancer

MACROSCOPIC
Three specimens received.

1: The specimen is labelled "right upper lobe" and consists of a right upper

lobe with attached chest wall. The right upper lobe measures 140 x 100 x 79 mm
in maximum dimension. The chest wall component consists of four ribs and
measures 140 x 60 mm in maximum dimension. On the hilar surface there are two
vertical soft tissue excision margins which are closed with staples, the

longest of which measures 90 mm and the other measures 60 mm. The staples are
removed and the new resection margin is inked in blue. On sectioning the
specimen there is a large cavitating mass which has an ill-defined lobulated
appearance and measures, in maximum dimension, 58 x 55 mm. The tumour appears
to lie approximately 13 mm from the bronchial resection margin. The tumour

lies well clear of the longest soft tissue excision margin and approximately 8

mm from the shorter soft tissue excision margin. The chest wall is blunt

dissected off the main specimen. The tumour does not appear macroscopically to
have infiltrated the chest wall as there is a thickened greyish-white soft

fibrous-like capsule between the tumour and the chest wall. The tumour focally
appears to be very close to the serosal surface. The small amount of normal

lung parenchyma that is present appears unremarkable. [1A, bronchial resection
margin; 1B, hilar lymph nodes; 1C-D, tumour with nearest anterior chest wail;
1C-H, full TS of the tumour; 11, tumour with nearest pleural surface; 1J,

tumour with adjacent bronchus; 1K, ? fibrous capsule adjacent to anterior chest
wall; 1L, normal lung parenchymal.

Please note the chest wall is submitted for decalcification and a further

report will be issued upon examination of the ribs histologically.

2: The specimen is labelled "hilar lymph node" and consists of three irregular
greyish-brown pieces of tissue measuring in aggregate 20 x 10 x 7 mm. [The
largest is bisected and BIT with the other pieces, 2A].

3: The specimen is labelled "peri-oesophageal lymph node" and consists of an
irregular piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 15 x 7 x 4mm. [Bisected and

| a mn

MICROSCOPIC

1: Sections show a cavitated poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma. Also
focally lining the cavity is a small amount of atypical squamous epithelium but
a significant malignant squamous component is not identified within the
carcinoma. The lesion is invading through visceral pleural to involve chest
wall fibrous connective tissue. There is blood vessel invasion but no
lymphatic permeation is seen. No perineural permeation is identified. The

lesion is well clear of the bronchial resection margin. No lymph node
metastases are seen. Surrounding the tumour there is evidence of obstructive
pneumonitis. The adjacent lung shows evidence of emphysema.

2: Sections of the lymph nodes show reactive changes only. There is no
evidence of malignancy.

3: Sections of the lymph nodes show reactive changes only. There is no
evidence of malignancy.

SUMMARY
Right upper lobe lung and lymph nodes:
1: Cavitated poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma; 58 mm in maximal dimension.

2: Blood vessel permeation identified but no lymphatic or perineural invasion
present.

3: Visceral pleural invasion with chest wall involvement identified; clear of
bronchial margin.

4: No lymph node metastases.
5: T3NOMX

COMMENT
A further report will be issued upon review of the chest wall and ribs.

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT
Sections of the ribs and chest wall have been examined. [Rib resection margin
one end, 1M; cartilage resection margin same end, 1N; rib and soft tissue

resection margin other end, 10; middle section of chest wail including the ribs
as a full TS, 1P-1Q.]

There is no residual malignancy within the chest wall tissues and there is no
involvement of rib bone. Three small chest wall lymph nodes are also present

and these also show no evidence of malignancy. There is haemopoietic marrow
within the rib bone.

SUMMARY

Right upper lobe: Poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma invading into chest wall
but not involving rib bone or soft tissue resection margin.

Page 2of 3
Report 1
