TCGA- 44- 3396




SPECIMEN
    A. Pericardia! reflection node
    B. Right upper and middle lobe
    c. Lymph node level 11
    D. Lymph node 4R
    E.  Lymph node 2R
    F. Lymph node level 9

CLINICAL NOTES
    Non-small cell lung cancer

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
    A) Lymph node, pericardial reflection node, excision - Metastatic
    non small cell carcinoma.

GROSS DESCRIPTION
                 A.   Received fresh for frozen section labeled "pericardial
       reflection node" are irregularly shaped fragments of tan tissue
that
       measure 0.6 x 0.6 x 0.4 em in aggregate dimension. The tissue is
       entirely frozen.
                B. Received fresh, subsequently fixed and inflated \·lith
                formalin labelled "bilobe right upper and middle lobe" is
a
       14.0 x 12.0 x 5,7 ern portion of lung which is grossly consistent
       1;i th the upper and middle lobe of the right lung. The pleural is
       violaceous smooth glistening with black stippling present shoNing a
       3.0 em umbilication at the fissure of the middle and upper lobe.
       This focus is inked and the specimen is sectioned to show a large
       white-gray firm mass v1hich is 5. 5 x 5. 0 x 3. 7 em. The tumor is
       contiguous with the umbilication and is also present at the base of
       the middle lobe.    There are staples present at this area.   This
area
       is inked and on sectioning shows no discrete tumor invading the
       stapled tissue. The remainder of the parenchyma is red-brovm and
       fleshy1  Few hilar nodes are grossly identified. The tumor comes
       vdthin 1.5 ern of the bronchial margin. Representative sections of
GROSS DESCRIPTION
    the specimen are submitted as follows:
    BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - brachial and vascular margins; 2-5 -
    representative section of tumor to umbilication and normal; 6 -
    representative section of tumor to base at stapled aspect of middle
    lobe; 7 - tumor to bronchus; 8 - representative normal; 9-10.
    possible hilar lymph node (block 10 is bisected),    RS-10.
              C. Received fresh subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
              "lymph node level 11" is a 1 x 0.5 x 0.4 em black red
    irregular soft tissue fragment which is entirely submitted in one
    cassette. AS-1.
              D. Received fresh subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
              "lymph node 4R" are two red black pink irregular soft
    tissue fragments which are 0.6 em each in greatest dimension.    The
    specimens are entirely submitted in one cassette.    AS-1.
              E. Received fresh subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
              "lymph node 2R" are multiple pink yellow black irregular
    soft to hard tissue fragments tvhich have an aggregate measurement
of
    2.2 x 1.5 x 0.7 em. The specimens are entirely submitted in one
    cassette.    AS-1.
              F.   Received fresh subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
              "lymph node level 9" is a 2 x 0.7 x 0.3 em pink black
    irregular soft tissue fragment t'lhich is entirely submitted in one
    cassette. AS-1.



MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
    Histologic type:  Adenocarcinoma.
    Histologic grade:   Poorly differentiated.
    Primary tumor (pT):   The tumor measures 5.5 em. in dimension and is
    present within less than 0.2 em. of the bronchial margin of
     excision, PT2.
    Margins of resection:   Invasive carcinoma is present in soft tissue
MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
    of the lung within 0.2 em. of the bronchial margin of excision.
    Direct extension of tumor:  Tumor shows rnultifocal areas of
    extension up to and focally into the pleural but is not identified
     on the pleural surface.
    Vessel invasion:    Present.
    Regional lymph nodes (pN):   Tumor shows involvement of hilar lymph
    nodes v1hich appears to be direct extension, although metastases can
     not be excluded.   Metastatic carcinoma is identified in a
    pericardial reflection node, pN2.
    Distant metastasis (pM):   pMx.

    l4x1, 3x5, 5x1

DIAGNOSIS
    A.  Lymph node, pericardial reflection node, excision - One lymph
    node positive for metastatic carcinoma (1/1).
    B.  Lung, right upper and middle lobe 1 excision - Invasive poorly
          differentiated adenocarcinoma (see tumor characteristics in
          the lung resection template in the microscopic description) .
    C. Lymph node 1 level 11 1 excision - One lymph node negative for
    metastatic carcinoma (0/1).
    D. Lymph node, level 4R, excision - Two lymph nodes negative for
    metastatic carcinoma (0/2).
    E.  Lymph node, level 2R, excision - Fragments of lymph node
    negative for metastatic carcinoma.
    F.  Lymph node, level 9, excision - One lymph node negative for
    metastatic carcinoma (0/1).




            --- End Of Report ---
E.  Received fresh subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
              "level 5" is a 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.7 em. black pink tan
irregular
    rubbery tissue fragment. The specimen is bisected to show a v1hi te
     firm rubbery nodule tvhich is entirely submitted in one cassette.
     AS-1
              F. Received fresh and subsequently fixed in formalin
              labeled "level 4 is a 0.5 x 0.3 x 0.3 em pink-red
irregular
     soft tissue fragment v1hich is entirely submitted in one cassette.
     AS-1.




MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
             A. The following template applies to the left lower lobe
             wedge resection:

     Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma
     Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated
     Primary tumor (pT): 1.7 em (pTl)
     Hargins of resection: Uninvolved
     Venous (large vessel} invasion: Not identified
     Arterial (large vessel) invasion: Not identified
     Lymphatic (small vessel) invasion: Not identified

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
    Regional lymph nodes (pN) : See specimen E below
    Distant metastasis (pM} : Cannot be evaluated by this specimen
    (pMX)
    Other findings: None.

              B. The following template applies to the left upper lobe
              wedge resection:

     Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma
     Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated
     Primary tumor (pT): 1.8 em (pTl)
     Margins of resection: Uninvolved
     Direct extension of tumor: Tumor invades the visceral pleura
     Venous (large vessel) invasion: Not identified
     Arterial (large vessel) invasion: Not identified
     Lymphatic (small vessel) invasion: Not identified
     Regional lymph nodes (pN) : See specimen E below
     Distant metastasis (pM) : Cannot be evaluated by this specimen
     (pMX)
     Other findings:  None.
 c.    The level 7 lymph node demonstrates no evidence of
                metastasis in one node.

                 D. The level 6 lymph node demonstrates two lymph nodes
Nith
                 no evidence of metastatic disease.

               E. The level 5 lymph node demonstrates metastatic poorly
      differentiated carcinoma involving one lymph node. The size of the
      metastasis is 1.5 em.

                 F. The level 4 lymph node demonstrates no evidence of
                 metastasis in one lymph node.


MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

      14x2, 4x2,   3x4


DIAGNOSIS
    A. Lung, left lm-1er lobe, wide resection:
               Poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma, 1.7 em, surgical
            margins uninvolved.
      B.   Lung, left upper lobe, v1edge resection:
               Poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma, 1.8 em, surgical
            margins uninvolved.
      C.   Level 7 lymph node, resection:
               No evidence of metastasis to one lymph node (0/1).
      D.   Level 6 lymph node, resection:
               No evidence of metastasis to two lymph nodes (0/2).
      E.   Level 5 lymph node, resection:
                Metastatic adenocarcinoma involving one lymph node size of
                                                                 1

             metastasis 1.5 em.
      F.   Level 4 lymph node, resection:
                No evidence of metastasis to one node (0/1).