HISTORY
1): (R) lower lobe apical segment resection. 2): Hilar LN.

MACROSCOPIC
Two specimens received:

1: The specimen is labelled ‘apex of (R) lower lobe’ and consists of a segment

of lung measuring 140 x 60 x 40 mm when inflated. A diathermied resection

margin is identified covering an area of 70 x up to 45 mm. In this areaa

bronchial resection margin, together with a stapled vascular resection margin,

is identified. Extending from this region is a stapled parenchymal resection
-margin, 100 mm in length. The pleural surface is red and glistening with areas

of black carbon pigmentation. There is a linear area of pleural scarring

measuring 30 mm opposite the stapled resection margin. Sectioning reveals a

tumour nodule, 33 x 25 x up to 25 mm, beneath this area of scarring. The

tumour has a well-defined outline and a homogenous, solid, cream cut surface.

It is located subpleurally and possibly invades the pleura. It is at least 20

mm from where the stapled resection margin has been removed, 40 mm from the

bronchial resection margin, and up to 10 mm from the diathermied resection

margin. The adjacent lung parenchyma shows patchy carbon pigmentation but no

focal Jesions or emphysematous change. [1A, bronchial and vascular resection

margin; 1B-D, tumour with overlying pleura; 1E, parenchymal resection margin;

1F, normal tung].

2: The specimen is labelled ‘hilar lymph node’ and consists of six fragments

" ™ _" 15x 10x 5mm in aggregate. [BIT, 2A].

MICROSCOPY

1: Sections show an extensively necrotic, moderately to poorly differentiated
adenocarcinoma which abuts and focally invades into the overlying pleura.
Vascular and lymphatic invasion are also identified but no perineural invasion

is seen. The inked surgical resection margin and bronchial resection margin
are well clear of malignancy. Distant lung parenchyma shows mild emphysema.

2: Sections show extensive replacement of the lymph node fragments by focally
necrotic metastatic adenocarcinoma.

SUMMARY

Right lower lobe apical segmentectomy and hilar lymph node sampling:
Moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma, 33 mm in diameter.
Pleural, vascular and lymphatic invasion present.

Metastases in hilar lymph nodes.

Pathological stage T2 N1.

OTAdS>V rPO-ZOnAPSR =...

