Pathologic Interpretation:
 A.    Intra lobar lymph node #11:
       - One lymph node with anthracosis.
       - No tumor seen.

 B.    Right upper lobe, lobectomy for frozen section:
       - Moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma, 6.2 cm. in greatest dimension.
       • The lumor penelrates visceral pleura.
       - Margins free of tumor.
       - Four lymph nodes, no malignancy seen (0/4).
       - AJCC pT2, NO, MX
       - See Tumor Summary.

C.     Para bronchial lymph node, biopsy:
       • One lymph node, no malignancy seen (0/1).

D.     Paraesophageallymph node #8:
       • One lymph node, no malignancy seen (0/1).

E.    Visceral pleural nodule, biopsy:
      - Lung parenchyma with foci of bronchioloalveolar hyperplasia.
      - No carcinoma seen.

F.    Right tracheal angle lymph node #10:
      - Two lymph nodes, no malignancy seen (0/2).

G.    Righi superior lobe segment:
      - Lung parenchyma with foci of bronchioloalveolar hyperplasia.
      - No carcinoma seen.

H.    Subcarinal lymph node #7:
      • Two lymph nodes, no malignancy seen (0/2).

I.    Inferior pulmonary lymph node #9:
      • Two lymph nodes, no malignancy seen (0/2).

J.    Right distal paratracheallymph node #R4:
      - Four lymph nodes, no malignancy seen (0/4) .

      Tumor Summary:
      Specimen Type: Lobectomy

      Laterality: Right

      Tumor Site: Upper lobe

      Tumor Size:
      Greatest dimension: 6.2 cm.
      Additional dimensions: 3 x 2.4 cm.

      Histologic Type: Adenocarcinoma, not otherwise characterized

      Histologic Grade:      Poorly differentiated

      Pathologic Staging:
          PT2: Tumor with any of the following features of size or extent: greater than 3cm in greatest dimension

          pNO: No region at lymph node metastasis

         pMX: Cannot be assessed

         Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
                  Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 2 mm.
                  Specify margin: Soft tissue (chest wall)

         Venous (Large Vessel) Invasion (V): Absent

         Arterial (Large Vessel) Invasion: Absent

         Lymphatic (Small Vessel) Invasion (L): Absent

         Pathologic Staging: pT2, NO, MX




                                                               As the attending pathologisl, I attest that I: (i) Examined the relevant preparalion(s)
                                                               for the specimen(s); and (ii) Rendered the diagnosis(es).




Addendum Diagnosis

This addendum is issued after a second review of the gross specimen and the pulmonary conference to clarify that there are
adhesions between the tumor and an attached fragment of membranous sotf tissue/parietal pleura? which measures approximately
7.5x2.0x0.4 c~e tumor does not penetrate through to reach into the soft tissue margin (section B6). This case was
reviewed w i t h _




Intraoperative Consultation

B.   Right upper lobe, FS: Bronchial margin, free of tumor.
                           Tumor: Carcinoma, favor adenocarcinoma.



                                                                                                                                         Page 2 of 4
 Clinical History:
 None Provided

 Operation Performed
 Right thoracotomy

 Pre Operative Diagnosis:
 Cancer

 Specimen(s) Received:
A: Intra lobar lymph node #11
B: Right upper lobe_
C: Para bronchial lymph node
D: Paraesophageallymph node #8
E: Visceral pleural nodule
F: Right tracheal angle lymph node #10
G: Right superior lobe segment
H: Subcarinallymph node #7
I: Inferior pulmonary lymph node #9
J: Right distal paratracheallymph node #R4

Gross Description:

A.        Received in formalin is an ovoid fragment of tan and yellow tissue with anthracotic pigment, measuring 1.2 x 0.9 x 0.5 cm.
          The fragment is bisected and submitted in toto in one cassette.

B.        Received fresh for frozen section is a 189 grams, 11.7 x 9.3 x 4.7 cm lobe of lung. The pleural surface is smooth,
          glistening, grey and purple. Upon seclioning, a well-defined, firm, tan and white mass, measuring 6.2 x 3.0 x 2.4 cm is
          identified. The mass is grossly in contact with the visceral pleura It has an area of cystic degeneration, measuring 1.8 x
          1.3 x 1.2 cm. The mass is up to 6.0 cm from the parenchymal bronchial and vascular resection margins. Other areas of
          the lung parenchyma are congested and spongy. Four lymph nodes are identified in the hilum. Representative sections
          are submitted as follows:
          1         Bronchial and vascular margins for frozen section
          2         Representative section of the mass for frozen section
          3&4       Section of the mass in relation with the pleural surface
          5&6       Mass in relation with adjacent cystic cavity
          7         Mass in relation with the pulmonary parenchyma
          8         Other areas of the lung
          9         Section of the cystic area
          10        Perihilar lymph nodes

C.        Received in formalin are two ovoid fragments of grey and tan tissue, measuring 0.2 x 0.2 x 0.1 cm in aggregate.
          Submitted in toto in one cassette.

D.        Received in formalin is an ovoid fragment of tan and grey tissue, measuring 1.3 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm. The fragment is bisected
          and submitted in toto in one cassette.

E.        Received in formalin is a long wedge biopsy, measuring 3.9 x 0.7 x 0.7 cm. In the pleural surface, a well defined white
          nodule, measuring 0.1 x 0.1 x 0.1 cm is identified. This lesion is 1.1 cm from the surgical resection margin. The lesion is
          submitted in toto with the surrounding lung parenchyma in one cassette.

F.        Received in formalin is an irregular fragment of tan and yellow tissue, measuring 1.6 x 0.7 x 0.6 cm. The lymph nodes are
          identified. The lymph nodes are bisected and submitted in toto in one cassette. One inked in black.

G.        Received in formalin is a lung wedge biopsy, measuring 4.4 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm. The pleural surface is slightly irregular. Upon
          sectioning, it is spongy, tan and brown. The tissue is submitted in toto for the second margin is one cassette.

H.        Received in formalin are two ovoid fragments of soft, tan and brown tissue with grey discoloration. The largest measures
          2.2 x 1.1 x 0.7 cm. The smallest measures 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto as follows:
          1        Largest fragment in toto, bisected
          2        The smallest fragment


                                                                                                                             Page 3 of 4
I.   Received in formalin are two ovoid fragments of soft, tan and yellow tissue with anthracotic pigment. The largest
     measures 1.3 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm. The smallest measures 0.5 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm. The fragments are bisected and submitted in
     toto in one cassette (the smallest fragment inked in black)

J.   Received in formalin is an irregular fragment of fibroadipose tissue, measuring 3.5 x 2.7 x 1.0 cm. Four lymph nodes are
     identified. The lymph nodes are submitted in toto as follows:
     1         One lymph node bisected
     2         One lymph node bisected
     3         Two lymph nodes




                                                                                                                    Page 4 of4