Procedure:

Diagnosis

A. Lung, left upper lobe, lobectomy:
 Adenocarcinoma, poorly differentiated
 2.8 cm, involving the lobar bronchus (pT2a)
 Bronchial and vascular resection margins negative for malignancy
 Pleural surface negative for malignancy
 2 bronchial lymph nodes negative for malignancy (0/2)
B. Lymph node, level X, biopsy:
 One lymph node negative for malignancy (0/1)
C. Lymph node, level V, biopsy:
 One lymph node negative for malignancy (0/1)
D. Lymph node, level VII, biopsy:
 One lymph node negative for malignancy (0/1)


Microscopic Description:
A-D Microscopic examination performed.
Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma, tumor cells stain strongly positive
for cytokeratin 7 and TT F1 and have focal mucicarmine positive
intracytoplasmic vacuoles. The tumor cells were completely negative
for CK 5/6 and showed less than 50% moderate staining with p63
Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated
Primary tumor (pT): Tumor is 2.8 cm (pT2a)
Margins of resection: Negative for tumor
Direct extension of tumor: Tumor involves the lobar bronchus, the
mainstem left bronchus was not submitted of the specimen. The tumor
invades the pulmonary parenchyma. The pleural surface is negative
Venous (large vessel) invasion: Not identified
Arterial (large vessel) invasion: Not identified
Lymphatic (small vessel) invasion: Not identified
Regional lymph nodes (pN): A total of 5 lymph nodes were evaluated and
were all negative for tumor (pN0)
Distant metastasis (pM): [Not evaluated (pMX)
Other findings: Focal pulmonary hemorrhage compatible with procedural
effects. Marked background anthracosis and emphysema.


Specimen
A. Left upper lobe
B. Level X lymph node
C. Level V lymph node
D. Level VII lymph node


Clinical Information
Lung nodule
Gross Description
A. Received fresh labeled "left upper lobe" is a 291 Gram, 23.5 x 13.5
x 4.0 cm specimen with attached 1.2 cm in length, 2.1 x 0.5 cm
bronchial stump. The pleura is smooth to scaberous tan-pink-red.
There is a moderately well circumscribed, and 2.8 x 2.5 x 2.0 cm
rubbery tan-white lesions adjacent to the bronchial stump. The pleura
adjacent to the lesion along the hilar surface is inked orange. On
sectioning the tumor is tan-white to gray-black and extends to within
1.3 cm of the inked surface (see blocks 3 through 5). A portion of
tumor and a portion of normal parenchyma are submitted for tissue
procurement as requested. The remaining parenchyma is uniform tan red
with a spongiform consistency. No additional mass lesion is
identified. 2 slightly rubbery tan-pink-red tissues in keeping wi
lymph nodes measuring up to 0.7 cm are recovered from the hilum.
10.
Summary: 1 - bronchial margin en face; 2 - vascular margins; 3 through
5 - tumor to inked pleural surface at region of hilum; 6 and 7 - tumor
   adjacent parenchyma; 8 and 9 - random parenchyma; 10 - 2 lymph nodes


B. Received fresh labeled "level X lymph node" is a 1.3 x 1.0 x 0.7 cm
tan-red ray tissue which is bisected and entirely submitted in one
block.

C. Received in formalin labeled "level V" is a 1.5 x 1 x 0.6 CM and
black tissue consistent with lymph node is bisected and entirely
submitted one block
D. Received in formalin labeled "level VII node" are 2 pieces of tan
   sue measuring 1 x 0.6 x 0.2 CM entirely submitted one block