Ret Physrurar

SPECIMEN INF

Collected:
Received:
Reported:

SL..w.w ne » ATHOLOGY REPORT
DIAGNOSIS

DIAGNOSIS:
Latera! section of left upper lobe, resection:
Tumor Characteristics:
. Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.
. Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated.
. Tumor site: Lateral segment left upper lobe.
. Tumor focality: Unifocal.
Tumor size: 3.8 x 2.8 x 2.5 cm.
. Visceral pleura! invasion: Yes.
. Lymphovascular space invasion: No.
Surgical Margin Status:
. Tumor distance from bronchial margin: Within 0.7 cm.
. Tumor distance from parenchymal (stapled) margin: 0.7 cm.
3. Tumor distance from pleural surface: Tumor involves the pleura.
Other:
1. pTNM stage: T2.

NOOPpRWN

NO =

B. Level VI lymph node, excision:
Single lymph node, negative for malignancy (0/1).

C. Level IX lymph node, excision:
Singie lymph node, negative for malignancy (0/1).

COMMENTS:

Tissue will be submitted for lung cancer mutation studies; separate report to follow.
CLINICAL INFORMATION

CLINICAL HISTORY:

Preoperative Diagnosis: | with left upper lobe lung nodule with history smoking and COPD
Postoperative Diagnosis:

Symptoms/Radiologic Findings:

SPECIMENS:

A. Lateral segment of left upper lobe
B. Level 6 lymph node

C. Level 9 lymph node

SPECIMEN DATA

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received in three formalin filled containers labeled with the patient's name

A. Additionally labeled lateral segment of left upper lobe and contains an 11.8 x 8.8 x 4.0 cm portion of lung surfaced by purple-gray anthracotic pleura
and featuring two serpiginous staple fines 17.5 and 4.0 cm in greatest dimension. The pleura is remarkable for a 1.0 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm area of umbilication
which is inked blue. The staple lines are removed and the underlying parenchyma is inked black. After removing the staple lines exposed segments of
bronchi and vasculature are present and are grossly free of tumor. Sectioning reveals a 3.8 x 2.8 x 2.5 cm gray-white mass that abuts the pleura at the
site of umnbilication and approaches to within 0.7 cm of the inked parenchymal margin. The mass features a gray-white friable, soft cut surface. The
remainder of the cut surface is beefy red and congested with areas of emphysematous change. Additional mase=e are not identified. Additionally, no
discrete lymor nodes are identified. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes A1-8 labelec designated as follows: 1--exposed

bronchia and wascu 2" Targ'"s. en ‘ace: 2-inked deep margin closest to mass. perpendicular; 3-G— mass to inked pleura, perpendicular, 7—

; ; 3 esearcn
emphysematous change; 8—most normal appearing parenchyma. Additionally, a yellow green and blue cassette are submitted for Genomics reseal
each labeled ,

i i i . They are
B. Additionally labeled level 6 lymph node and contains two irregular black nodules consistent with anthracotic lymph nodes 1.0 cm, each y

entirely submitted in cassette B labeled

i i race
C. Additionally labeled level 9 lymph node and contains a 1.0 cm purple-gray rubbery nodule bisected to reveal a black, anthracotic cut su

nsistent with lymph node. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette C labeled a ates

