SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:

_               E D , . , . . . . I V E D DATE:     REPORTDATE: _



COPY TO:




 Pre-Op Diagnosis
Lung mass
Post-Op Diagnosis
Same as above
Clinical History
Nothing indicated
Gross Description:
Four parts

    Container labeled                              lymph node" is 0.9 x
    0 .8 x 0.7 cm                                    gray tan to brown
    tissue with an indurated focally chalky gray tan to yellow friable
    nodule measuring 0.4 cm on sectioning. Sectioned specimen is
    entirely submitted in a single cassette.

    Container labeled                               lymph node" is 1.5 x
    1.0 x 0.4 cm elongated and irregular shaggy gray brown to black
    fleshy tissue fragments entirely submitted in a single cassette.

    Container labeled _ _ right lung middle lobe" is 69
    gram portion of re~ry parenchyma with appears
    grossly consistent with right middle lobe of lung. This is
    partially sectioned and has a closed staple line as the margin of
    resection. The specimen is received after tissue harvest for
    genomic study. The specimen on reconstruction is 10.0 x 9.6 x up to
    3.3 cm. The margin of resection includes a stapled bronchus. The
    pleura is wrinkled mottled tan brown. Noted near the staple line
    margin at a point 3.4 cm from the bronchial margin there is a
    subpleural well defined lobulated 1 .7 x 1.7 x 1.6 cm tan gray
    fibrotic lesion with a firm slightly gritty tan gray fibrotic cut
    surface. This grossly appears to focally extend to within 0.3 cm of
    the stapled parenchymal margin but does not appear to be transected
at this margin . The lesion grossly e x tends to within 0 . 1 cm of the
pleura but does not grossly extend into it. A grossly recognizable
bronchial connection is not identified however several small bronchi
appear to extend toward the region of the periphery of the lesion .
The staple line is removed . The parenchyma at the remaining active
stapled margin is removed and has been inked. The specimen is
sectioned to reveal the remaining parenchyma is slightly congested
rubbery spongy and pink red w ithout additional nodularity or gross
lesions. Also received '                        r are three tissue
cassettes each labeled                         Representative sections are
submitted labeled as follows: A - shaved bronchial margin ; B-F -
remain ing lesion and surrounding tissue ; G - random uninvolved
parenchyma .

Container labeled                                lymph node" are 3.0 x
2 . 1 x up to 1.0 cm of soft shaggy gray tan to brown fleshy tissue




-
fragments entirely submitted in two cassettes .



Microscopic Description :
Reviewed are slides l a b e l e d _

Final Diagnosis
Lymph node, level 7 :
 One lymph node with prominent dense calcification .
 No h istolog ic evidence of metastatic carcinoma identified in
sections examined .
Lymph node, level 1 D, biopsy :
 Benign lymph node, multiple fragments , no histolog ic evidence of
  metastatic carcinoma identified in sections examined.
Lung, right m iddle lobe , lobectomy:
 Specimen integrity: Received intact.
 Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.
 Grade: Moderately differentiated (II) .
 Tumor site: Right midd le lobe.
 Tumor focality : Unifocal.
 Tumor s ize: 1 .7x1 .7 x 1.6cm.
 Visceral pleural invasion: Not identified .
 Lymphovascular space invasion : No unequivocal Iymphovascular
    space invasion identified in sections examined .
 Tumor extension : Tumor confined to pulmonary parenchyma .
 Treatment effect: Unknown.
 Su rgical margin status:
  Tumor distance from bronch ial margin: 3.4 cm .
  Tumor distance from parenchymal margin : 0 .3 cm
  Tumor distance from p leural surface: 1 mm
 Lymph node status: See parts 1 , 2 , and 4
 Other: Organizing pneumon ia . PAS 9
 Stage pT1 aNO
Lymph node, leve l 8 , excision :
 Multiple fragments of benign lymph node, no h istologic eviden~
  metastatic carcinoma identified in sections e x amined. PAS 9 _


CPT: 88305 x2 , 88307

Comments
At the request of the undersig~t , these slides have
been additionally reviewed by _ _ who concurs with the
diagnOSis.




                                                            --   _ . ._   - -   - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - -
This report has been finalized at th~



<Sign Out Dr. Signature>