LEFT UPPER LOBE AND NUMBER 5 LYMPH NODE

Clinical Notes:
Left upper lobectomy: apical lung carcinoma.
Station 5 lymph node.

Two specimens are received:


1: LEFT UPPER LOBE

Macroscopy:
Specimen is labelled "left upper lobe" and consists of a lobe of lung measuring 180 x 100 x 40 mm.
Enlarged peribronchial lymph nodes are seen at the resection margin. No endobronchial abnormality is
seen. The pleural surface appears normal except for at the apex where there is a subpleural tumour
measuring 30 mrn in maximum diameter. There is a fibrofatty adhesion, measuring 25 x 8 x 5 mrn, at
the apical surface of the tumour. The tumour is moderately well circumscribed, solid and cream in
colour witli numerous small areas of necrosis seen. Non-neoplastic parenchyma displays no
abnormality. [Bronchial resection margin, A; peribronchial lymph nodes transected and BIT, B-D; RS
of tumour, E-H; apical non-neoplastic parenchyma, I; lingula parenchyma, J].

Microscopy:
Sections show a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma which invades the pleura in the region of the
fibro fa tty adhesion. Vascular invasion is also noted. Focally the tumour has a cystic architecture with
papillary infolding into the cyst lumen, but it is a predominantly solid tumour. There is extensive
replacement of peribronchial lymph nodes by metastatic poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma, and
transcapsular extension of tumour is noted. Tumour emboli are noted in lymphatics in surrounding
fibrofatty tissue. The bronchial resection margin is well clear of malignancy. Non-neoplastic lung
parenchyma shows changes of respiratory bronchiolitis.

2: NUMBER 5 LYMPH NODE

Macroscopy:
Specimen is labelled "number 5 lymph node" and consists of a lymph node measuring 20 mrn in
maximum diameter. The cut surface shows a solid white nodule at one pole of the lymph node
measuring 4 mrn in diameter. [Transected and BIT, 2A]. [

Microscopy:
Sections show multiple foci of metastatic poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma within the lymph
nodes.

Conclusion-Specimens 1 & 2:
Left upper lobectomy and lymph node sampling: Poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with vascular
and pleural invasion and lymph node metastases, pathoiogical stage T2N2.

T-28000 M-81403 PI-03000

Reportedb~
~ •• • II   •   • ••••   gist


Copies: