SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:

PROCEDURE DATE:          RECEIVED DATE:          REPORT DATE:



COPY TO:



10 Consultation
                                                                   low                    ower
FS DIAGNOSIS:
#1: "No neoplasm consistent with organizing neumoniar" reported to                           1-12-r2
Dr.            positive patient 10, by Dr.
Campus.
#2: "Adenocarcinoma" reported to Dr.            positive patient
ID, by Dr.,4,

Pre-Op Diagnosis
Right lower and upper lobe mass
Post-Op Diagnosis
Same as above
Clinical History
Nothing indicated
Gross Description:
Five parts

Container labeled '                     I - right lower lobe wedge #1"
is a previously sectioned wedge shaped portion of recognizable
pulmonary parenchyma with a closed staple line as the margin of
resection. The specimen as received weighs 4.3 grams and on
reconstruction measures approximately 4.5 x 1,6 x 1.4 cm. The
pleura is wrinkled gray red. The cut surface is rubbery to spongy
and pink red without discrete gross mass lesion . The portion
submitted for frozen section is reported as "nn neoplasm consistent
with organizing pneumonia[` reported to       ____.__. positive
patient ID, by       IS The frozen residue is submitted labeled
A. The remaining tissue is sectioned and submitted labeled B-D.

Container labeled '                     2 - right lower lobe wedge #2"
is a previously sectioned partially fragmented wedge shaped portion
of recognizable pulmonary parenchyma weighing as received 22 grams
and on reconstruction measures approximately 5.7 x 4.2 x 3.0 cm.
the closed staple line is the margin of resection. The pleura is




                                                                               :rfteriu
                                                                               )iignosis Discrepancy
                                                                                                                                 ` Yes.   I   I No   1

                                                                               3ritnar y Tuinor Site Disc.epancy
                                                                               IIPSA Discrepancy
                                                                               'rioi Maiignar ry i.,tory
                                                                               )uat/Synchronous prmary N,
                                                                               :tse 6                               /   GlSQUAI TIED
                                                                               ievie                               sewed:   /7




                                                                           UUID: 25E84F93-E9AF-4A09 - 83A9-86C5AC80BD4A
                                                                                 TCGA-55-A4DF-01A-PR                Redacted

                                                                         III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIILIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
                                                                         III 1111111 II 11111111111lllllllIIIIIIII I^IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
                                                                         III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIII
wrinkled gray pink with an eccentric 2.5 x 2.5 cm plaque like area
of tan gray discoloration and urnbilication noted 0.8 cm from the
nearest staple line margin . This is sectioned to reveal a well
defined lobulated gritty gray tan fibrotic lesion with focally
anthracotic gritty gray tan fibrotic cut surface measuring 2.7 x 2.5
x 2.0 cm. This grossly extends to but not through the pleura. The
remaining parenchyma is spongy and pink red. The portion submitted
for frozen section is reported as "adenocarcinoma " reported to Dr.
              ositive patient ID, by Dr.J        In addition, there
are three tissue cassettes within the specimen container labeled
                        The frozen residue is submitted labeled A. The
 remaining lesion and surrounding tissue is submitted labeled B-H.
 Representative remaining parenchyma is submitted labeled I-J.

 Container labeled'                        3 - right upper lobe wedge"
 has a 15 gram wedge shaped portion of recognizable pulmonary
 parenchyma with a closed staple line as the margin of resection.
 The specimen is 6.0 x 3.0 x 2.1 cm. The pleura is slightly wrinkled
 pink red with marked anthracotic streaking and a few areas of
 apparent plaque like thickening up to 0.8 cm which are poorly
 defined. On sectioning in the central portion of the specimen there
 is an intraparenchymal 1.0 x 0.9 x 0.7 cm lobulated gray tan
 fibrotic nodular lesion noted 0 . 4 cm from the nearest staple line
 margin. This has a gritty gray tan fibrotic cut surface. The
 remaining parenchyma is spongy congested and markedly anthracotic
 streaked with moderate honeycombing. The specimen is step sectioned
 and entirely submitted in 10 cassettes.

 Container labeled'4 - level 4 lymph node" are
 1.6 x 1.0 x 0.3 cm of gray brown to black fleshy tissue fragments
 which are entirely submitted in a single cassette.

  Container labeled '                      5 - level 7 lymph node" are
  4.0 x 2.2 x 1.1 cm partially fragmented lobulated portion of fleshy
  gray black tissue with a slightly mottled fleshy gray black cut
  surface. This is received along with 1.2 x 0.9 x 0.4 cm of similar
  irregular tissue fragments . The largest portion is sectioned and
  submitted labeled A-E while the smaller portion is entirely
  submitted labeled F.

  IM
  Microscopic Description:
  Sections of specimen #2 show a large cell malignant neoplasm that in
  areas shows prominent gland formation. These glandular area blend
  into more solid nests of neoplastic cells. These are supported by a
  dense fibrous stroma and alternate with areas of necrosis. The
  neoplasm extends into the pleural but not onto the pleural surface.


  Sections of the neoplasm within the right upper lobe specimen #3
  show a large cell malignant neoplasm with a distinctly different
  growth pattern. In this neoplasm the cells form sheets that have
  irregular borders. The cells have a moderate amount of eosinophilic
  cytoplasm and enlarged pleomorphic nuclei.

   Sections of the lymph node specimens show no areas of metastatic
   carcinoma.

   lmmunohistochemical stains are performed on the neoplasm in the
   right lower lobe specimen and right upper lobe specimen. The right
  lower lobe specimen shows the neoplasm to be positive for CK7 and
  negative for CK20 . Some of the cells are strongly positive for
  TTF1. These are in the more glandular areas . The more solid areas
  are negative for this marker. The more solid areas do express
  positivity for CDX-2 where the glandular areas tend to be negative
  for this marker. The cells are negative for p63 . This staining
  pattern would support this being an adenocarcinoma of pulmonary
  origin. It is unclear why some of the cells mark with the
  colorectal marker CDX-2. This same panel performed on the right
  upper lobe specimen show the neoplastic cells to be negative for
  both CK7 and CK20. The cells are negative for CDX-2 and TTF1. The
  cells are strongly positive for p63 . This staining pattern would
  support this being a squamous carcinoma that is very poorly
  differentiated . The immunohistochemical control slides stain
  appropriately.

 Final Diagnosis
 Right lung lower lobe wedge biopsy #1 with frozen section:
  Negative for carcinoma.
 Alveolar changes focally with pneumocyte hyperplasia consistent
 with organizing pneumonia
  and atelectasis.
 Frozen section diagnosis is confirmed.
 Lung , right lower lobe wedge biopsy #2 with frozen section:
 Tumor characteristics:
  Histologic type : Adenocarcinoma.
  Histologic grade : Poorly differentiated.
  Tumor size: 2 . 7 x 2.5 x 2.0 cm.
  Tumor focality: Single focus of right lower lobe.
  Visceral pleural invasion : Yes (PLI).
  Lymphovascular space invasion : Not identified,
  Tumor extension : Not identified.
   Treatment effect Not identified.
  Surgical margin status:
   Tumor distance from bronchial margin : Not applicable.
  Tumor distance from stapled margin : 0.8 cm.
  Lymph node status:
  See specimens four and five.
 Lung , right upper lobe, wedge biopsy:
  Histologic type: Poorly differentiated squamous carcinoma (see
 above comments).
  Histologic grade : Poorly differentiated.
  Tumor site: Right upper lobe.
  Tumor focality : Right upper lobe, single focus
  Tumor size: 1 . 0 x 0.9 x 0.7 cm.
  Visceral pleural invasion : Not identified.
  Lymphovascular space invasion: No.
  Tumor extension: No.
  Treatment effect : Not identified.
 Surgical margin status:
  Tumor distance from bronchial margin: Not applicable.
  Tumor distance from parenchymal stapled margin : 0.4 cm.
  Tumor distance from pleural surface : 0.8 cm ( as measured on
histologic sections).
 Lymph node status:
  See specimens four and five.
Lymph node level 4 , excisional biopsy:
 Negative for tumor (0/1).
Lymph node level 7 , excisional biopsy:
 Negative for tumor (O/1).
Pathology stage:
Comments
The tumor morphology present in specimen three shows focal areas
with morphology compatible with a poorly differentiated
adenocarcinoma. The possibility of focal squamous differentiation
cannot be completely excluded.

This report has been finalized at the



<Sign out Or. Signatures