Patient Name MR# Observation Date

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY CASE:

Diagnosis
Lymph node, level IX, excision:
- One lymph node negative for malignancy (0/1).

Lymph node, level VIII, excision:
- One lymph node negative for malignancy (O/1).

Lymph node, level X, exclsion:
- Multiple fragments of lymph node negative for malignancy.

Lymph node, level VII, excision:
- Multiple fragments of lymph node negative for malignancy.

Lymph node, level AI, excision:
- Multiple fragments of lymph node negative for malignancy.

Lung, right upper lobe, bronchial margin:
- Negative for malignancy.

Lung, right upper lobe, resection:

- Adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated with bronchoalveolar features.

- Two tumor nodules are present, measuring 5.5 cm and 1.0 cm.

- Tumor inolves peribronchial soft tissue and perineural invasion is identified.
- Overlying pleura in uninvolved by tumor.

- Adenocarcinoma 1S present in shaved stapled line.

- One lymph node negative for malignancy (0/1).

- Pathologic stage: pT3(m) / N2.

Lymph node, level II, excision:
- One lymph node negative for malignancy (0/1).

Lymph node, level IV, excision:
- One lymph node positive for metastatic carcinoma (1/3).

Clinical Information
The patient 18 a year Old female with a history of lung cancer.

Frozen Section Diagnosis
FFS1: Bronchial margin, biopsy:
- Negative for malignancy.

GFSLl: Lung, right upper lobe, resection:
- Non-small cell carcinoma with squamous features. (per Dr. )

Gross Description
The specimen 1S received in nine separate containers, all labeled with the

i jd F Fi ti =
' / é
patient's name and medical record number.

Specimen #1 is received in formalin and is designated as "#1 level IX lymph node".
Received is a single fragment of tan-black lymph node tissue measuring 1.2 x 0.4 x 0.4
cm. It is entirely submitted in one cassette.

Specimen #2 is received in formalin and is designated as "#2 level VIII lymph node".
Received is a single fragment of yellow and black lymphoadipose tissue measuring 1.0 x
0.6 x 0.3 cm. It is entirely submitted in one cassette.

Specimen #3 is received in formalin and is designated as "#3 level X lymph node".
Received are multiple fragments of tan and black lymphoadipose tissue measuring in
aggregate 1.6 x 0.8 x 0.3 cm. The fragments are entirely submitted in one cassette.

Specimen #4 is received in formalin and is designated as "#2 level VII lymph node".
Received are multiple fragments of tan and black lymphoadipose tissue measuring in
aggregate 1.7 x 1.4 x 0.5 cm. They are entirely submitted in one cassette.

Specimen #5 is received in formalin and is designated as "#5 level XI lymph node".
Received are multiple fragments of brown and black tissue measuring in aggregate 1.1 x
0.7 cm. The specimen is serially sectioned and entirely submitted in one cassette.

Specimen #6 was previously received for frozen section. At that time it was noted to

consist of two fragments of tissue measuring 1.0 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm, and 0.8 x 0.4 °x 0.3 cm.
It was entirely submitted for frozen section and is now entirely submitted for permanent
section.

Specimen #7 is received in a container labeled "#7 - right upper lobe". This was
initially received fresh for frozen section and is now received in formalin. The
specimen consists of a 10.0 x 6.5 x 5.0 cm lobe of lung. At the time of frozen section,
a 5.5 x 4.5 x 3.8 cm tan mass with anthracotic pigment and an infiltrative border was
described 1.0 cm from the stapled margin. Also, a separate 1.0 cm nodule was noted, 2.0
cm from the stapled margin. A representative section of the larger lesion taken

at the time of frozen will be resubmitted for permanent. Sectioning through the tumor
reveals that it encircles the more proximal portion of the bronchus on the specimen. The
most distal aspect appears free of tumor. A segment of vessel is identified next to the
bronchus and the margin is shaved and submitted. The additionally described separate
nodule is at least 2.0 cm from the stapled surgical margin. The lung is serially
sectioned and no additional lesions are identified. The uninvolved lung parenchyma is
tan-purple. The stapled surgical margin is shaved and submitted

Specimen #8 is received in formalin labeled "#8 level II lymph node". Received is a
single fragment of yellow lobular adipose tissue measuring 1.0 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. It is
entirely submitted in one cassette. Specimen #9 is received in formalin and is designated
as "#9 level IV lymph node". Received are multiple fragments of tan-white tissue
measuring 2.5 x 1.0 x 0.8 om. The fragments are entirely submitted in one cassette.

Block Summary

Al - Level IX lymph node

Bl = Level VIII lymph node

CT, = Level X lymph node

Dl = Level VII lymph node

El = Level XI lymph node

FI = Bronchial margin

Gl- Representative section of lung (frozen section).

G2- Additional bronchial tissue.

G3= Tumor in relationship to uninvolved lung.

G4-G5- Tumor in relationship to bronchus.

G6- Vascular margin with additional representative sections of the tumor.
G7- Representative section of the tumor.

G8- Representative sections from separate smaller lesion.
G9-G12- Shaved stapled surgical margin.

Hl = Level II lymph node
Microscopic Description

a i
Th ie : = > leg ii Z 4

= mt ry =

SP Synoptic Report

G: Thorax Lung

SPECIMEN:

Lobe(s) of lung: Right upper lobe
PROCEDURE:

Lobectomy

SPECIMEN INTEGRITY:

Intact

SPECIMEN LATERALITY:

Right

TUMOR SITE:

Upper lobe

TUMOR SIZE:

Greatest dimension: 5.5 cm
TUMOR FOCALITY:

Separate tumor nodules in same lobe
HISTOLOGIC TYPE:
Adenocarcinoma

HISTOLOGIC GRADE:

G2: Moderately differentiated
VISCERAL PLEURA INVASION:

Not identified

BRONCHIAL MARGIN:

Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

LYMPH-VASCULAR INVASION:

Not identified

PRIMARY TUMOR (pT):

oT3: Tumor > 7 cm in greatest dimension; or
invades any of the following: chest wall (including

superior sulcus tumors), diaphragm, phrenic
pericardium;

or Tumor in the main bronchus < 2 cm distal
the carina; or Tumor with atelectasis or

obstructive pneumonitis of the entire lung;
nodule(s) in same lobe

REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN) :

Tumor of any size that directly
nerve, mediastinal pleura, parietal
to the carina but w/o involvement of

or Tumors with separate tumor

DN2: Metastasis in ipsilateral mediastinal and/or subcarinal lymph node(s)

