SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

De-Identified Specimen Code:

Patient Age/Sex | |] M

SPECIMEN SUBMITTED:

Part A: BRONCHIAL MARGIN RIGHT
UPPER LOBE

Part B: LEVEL 10

Part C; LEVEL 11

Final Diagnosis

1. Right lung, upper lobe, lobectomy (A) Adenocarcinoma with acinar and bronchioloalveolar
components.

- Two peribronchiolar lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma (0/2).

- Mild centrilobular emphysema.

2. Lymph nodes, level 10, excision (B) Negative for neoplasm.

3. Lymph nodes, level 11, excision (C) - Negative for neoplasm.

Diagnosis Comment:
1.
Tumor Location: Right upper lobe

Tumor Size: 2.2 cm in greatest dimension.

Vascular Invasion: No

Lymphatic Invasion: No

Bronchial Margin: Negative

Vascular Margin: Negative

Parenchymal Margins: Negative (gross assessment).
Pleura/Soft Tissue Margin: Negative

Pathologic Stage (AJCC): Stage IA (pT1b NOQ)

General comment: The tumor will be sent for EGFR mutational analysis and the results of those studies
reported as an addendum.

Page 1 of 2
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Procedure: EGFR Mutation Analysis Re Status: Signed Out

Text: EGFR Mutation Analysis (Clarient # EEE cate I:

Diagnosis of neoplasm: No EGFR alteration detected .

Genotype result: Wild type (see complete Clarient report in Epic).

Intraoperative Diagnosis:
A. Bronchial margin, no tumor seen

Clinical Diagnosis:
RUL NODULE

Gross Description:

A, Received in fixative labeled "bronchial margin right upper lobe" is a lobectomy specimen of the upper
lobe of the right lung that weighs 189 grams fresh and measured 17.5 x 10.4 x 4.6 cm pre-inflation,
After a period of inflation and fixation, the specimen measures 13.5 x 12,0 x 4.5 cm. There is a 0.9 cm
bronchial stump previously taken for frozen section, which was negative. In the anterior segment, there
is a poorly circumscribed firm gray-yellow tumor measuring 2.2 x 2.0 x 2.0 cm. There is no necrosis.
The tumor is underlying a retracted puckered area of pleura measuring 2.8 x 2.5 cm in area. The tumor
abuts the pleura, abuts segmental bronchi, is located 0.5 cm from the nearest vessel. The tumor is
located 0.7 cm from the proximal margin, which is inked orange. The pleura above the tumor is inked
blue. There are mild emphysematous changes in the remainder of the lung, and there is an area of
consolidation in the apex which has a tan discoloration. Sections are submitted as follows: A1 frozen
section of bronchial margin; A2 vascular margins; A3 tumor with overlying pleura inked blue; A4-A5
tumor with bronchus and vessels; A6 tumor with parenchymal margin inked orange; A7 tumor with
pleura; A8 apex consolidation; AQ normal lung; A710 two hilar lymph nodes.

B. Received in formalin are two tan-gray nodules resembling lymph nodes aggregating to 0.5x0.3 x 0.2
cm. Totally submitted in one cassette.

C. Received fresh are multiple tan-black nodules resembling lymph nodes aggregating to 1.0 x 0.5 x 0.3
cm. Totally submitted in one cassette.

Microscopic:
{Not Entered}

Page 2 of 2
