TCGA-44-2655




SPECIMEN
    A.   Posterior segment right
    B.   Node level 10
    C.   Level 11
    D.   Right upper lobe
    E.   2R fat pad
    F.   4R node
    G.   Level 7

CLINICAL NOTES
    PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS:   Lung lesion

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
    A- Adenocarcinoma.

GROSS DESCRIPTION
             A.  Received fresh for frozen section labeled "posterior
             segment right" and consists of a peripheral wedge
resection
    of lung measuring 9.5 x 3 x 2.3 em.   There is a staple line which
    runs longitudinally.  On the opposite surface there is a stitch
    denoting the location of a lesion.   The total surface is smooth and
    glistening.  On sectioning the area of the stitch, there is a
    subpleural ill defined area of induration measuring 1.5 x 1 x 1 em.
    A touch preparation and frozen section are performed. Samples of
    this nodule as well as samples of normal lung tissue are taken for
    tissue procurement.  The staple line is removed. The margin is
    painted black. The remaining parenchyma is soft pink and spongy.
    Additional sections are submitted in six blocks, following



   -
fixation.



tissue
             B.
             11
                   Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
                DOde level 10" is a 0.5 em black-red irregular soft

    fragment which is entirely submitted in one cassette.  AS-1. mkw:km
             c. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
             "level 11" are two black red irregular soft tissue
                                                        TCGA-44-2655




SPECIMEN
    A.   Posterior segment right
    B.   Node level 10
    c.   Level 11
    D.   Right upper lobe
    E.   2R fat pad
    F.   4R node
    G.   Level 7

CLINICAL NOTES
    PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS:   Lung lesion

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
    A - Adenocarcinoma.

GROSS DESCRIPTION
             A.  Received fresh for frozen section labeled "posterior
             segment right 11 and consists of a peripheral wedge
resection
    of lung measuring 9. 5 x 3 x 2. 3 em. There is a staple line v1hich
    runs longitudinally. On the opposite surface there is a stitch
    denoting the location of a lesion.    The total surface is smooth and
    glistening.  On sectioning the area of the stitch, there is a
    subpleural ill defined area of induration measuring 1.5 x 1 x 1 em.
    A touch preparation and frozen section are performed.    Samples of
    this nodule as well as samples of normal lung tissue are taken for
    tissue procurement.   The staple line is removed. The margin is
    painted black. The remaining parenchyma is soft pink and spongy.
    Additional sections are submitted in six blocks, following


             B.  Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
             "node level 10" is a 0.5 em black-red irregular soft
tissue
    fragment \·Jhich is entirely submitted in one cassette. AS-1.
             c. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
             "level 11" are two black red irregular soft tissue
GROSS DESCRIPTION
    fragments dhich are 0. 4 em and 0. 2 em in greatest dimension.
              1


    Specimens are entirely submitted in one cassette. AS-1.
             D.  Received fresh subsequently fixed and inflated with
             formalin labeled "right upper lobe" is an 11.5 x 9. 8 x 5. 3
    em portion of lung which shoHs two staple lines measuring 11.5 and
    8.5 em.  Both staple lines are located near the hilar surface. The
    hilum of the specimen sho.-rs few possible lymph nodes present.
    Multiple staples are grossly identified. The staples are removed
    and staple lines are inked blue. The pleura of the specimen is
    violaceous smooth glistening and shows no umbilication or puckering
    present.  The cut surface of the specimen is red-brown and spongy.
    No discrete gross lesions are identified or are palpated.
    Representative sections of the specimen are submitted as follm·TS:
    Block 1 - possible hilar nodes; block 2 - bronchial and vascular
    margins; block 3-8 - representative sections of the specimen.   RS-8.

              E.   Received in formalin labeled "2R fat pad" are two
              yellm.; black irregular soft tissue fragments \-lhich average
    2.0 x 1.2 x 0.3 em.    The specimens are entirely submitted in one
    cassette.    AS-1.
              F.   Received fresh subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
              "4R node" is a 1.5 x 0.7 x 0.5 em pink-red irregular
    rubbery tissue fragment which is bisected and entirely submitted in
    one cassette.    AS-1.      m
              G.   Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
              "level 7" is a 1.5 x 0.7 x 0.5 em black irregular soft
    rubbery tissue fragment Hhich is bisected and entirely submitted in
    one cassette. AS-1.



MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
             A. This wedge resection contains a subpleural tumor mass.
             The touch preparation discloses moderately differentiated
    adenocarcinoma. Histologic sections disclose and infiltrating
    moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma vd th a peripheral
    bronchoalveolar type growth pattern. The tumor is strongly positive
    for TTFl, supporting a lung primary.  The tumor measures 1.5 em in
    gross maximum dimension.  Please see the template below.

   Histologic type:  Infiltrating adenocarcinoma
   Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated
   Primary tumor (pT):  The tumor measures 1.5 em,
   Margins of resection: Negative
   Direct extension of tumor:  Negative
   venous (large vessel) invasion~  Negative
   Arterial (large vessel) invasion: Negative
   Lymphatic (small vessel) invasion:   Negative
   Regional lymph nodes (pN}: As per part B through G, at least 11
   lymph nodes are present, all negative for metastatic disease, pNO
Distant metastasis (pM) : Cannot be assessed
    Other findings: Mild emphysematous change is noted.

             B&C. Microscopic examination performed.

             D. This right upper lobe is status post prior wedge
             resection. The remaining lobe is negative for tumor.
    Bronchial and vascular margins of resection are negative for tumor.
    A single subpleural focus of nonspecific scarring (block #7) is
    noted, measuring 2 em in maximum dimension. The lung parenchyma
    discloses mild to moderate emphysematous change. Five hilar lymph
    nodes are found with anthracosis, all negative for metastatic
    disease.

             E-G. Microscopic examination performed.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

    [A few of the antibodies used in our laboratory may be classified as
    analyte specific reagents. These antibodies are monitored and
    controlled in our laboratory and their performance for in vitro
    diagnosis is well described in the medical literature. They have
    not been cleared or approved by the FDA.)

    14, 65, 5, 4x3, 3x3, 20

DIAGNOSIS
   A. Posterior segment of right lung, wedge resection -- Peripheral
   portion of lung with infiltrating moderately differentiated
      adenocarcinoma of lung. The pleura and margin of resection are
      negative for tumor. No vascular invasion is found.
   B. Level 10 lymph node, biopsy -- Single lymph node with
   anthracosis, negative for metastatic disease, 0/1.
   c. Level 11 lymph node, biopsy -- Crushed fibrous and lymphoid
   tissue negative for tumor.
   D. Right upper lobe, right upper lobectomy -- Right upper lobe,
   status post prior wedge resection, negative for residual tumor. All
      five regional lymph nodes are negative for metastatic disease,
      0/5.
        Nonspecific focus of subpleural scar present and emphysematous
        change is noted.
   E. 2R fat pad, excision -- Single lymph node negative for metastatic
   disease, 0/1.
   F. 4R node, dissection -- Two lymph nodes negative for metastatic
   disease, 0/2.
   G. Level 7 lymph nodes, dissection -- Two lymph nodes negative for
   metastatic disease, 0/2.